Some of the links in this article are affiliate links, meaning if you buy through them, I may receive a small commission, at no extra cost to you. For more information on affiliate links, click here. Thank you for supporting my writing! If you’re not familiar with Caroline Girvan and the EPIC program, here’s your cue[Continue reading ](https://girlsloveevidence.com/caroline-girvan-epic-vs-epic-heat/)
I’ve been meaning to write this for a while, since I’ve gotten quite a few questions on products like LiquidIV, Nuun, and Hydrant, and even Pedialyte. There are so many products out there geared towards improving our hydration, and quite a few of them have claims to provide “2-3 times the hydration of water!” Today,[Continue reading ](https://girlsloveevidence.com/how-to-tell-when-you-need-electrolytes/)
It’s summer, and as always, I’m being bombarded with messaging from every direction about how my most valuable asset is my bikini body. Since I’ve lived through at LEAST 3 different phases of the “ideal” body type for women at the ripe old age of 23, I struggle to even conceptualize the ideal body anymore.[Continue reading ](https://girlsloveevidence.com/toning-exercises-for-arms/)
After writing an article on Caroline Girvan’s EPIC program, I’ve received DMs and questions from people about other YouTube workout plans and whether or not the health and fitness influencers behind them are worth their salt. Below, I’ve compiled some of the science-based health and fitness influencers and YouTubers that I’ve personally watched, and have[Continue reading ](https://girlsloveevidence.com/science-based-health-and-fitness-influencers/)
After nearly two years of surgeries and healing, I finally started to get back into the habit of working out only a few months before COVID-19 hit the US. While I was disappointed, I wasn’t discouraged and spent a lot of this year trying out random workouts that can be done from home. The Caroline[Continue reading ](https://girlsloveevidence.com/caroline-girvan-epic-program/)
Manage consent
