## Introduction
‘Big data is no longer just for big companies’. Today we welcomed Bronte Elle Mojdehi, Senior Marketing Manager of [Proto AI](https://www.proto.ai/), a scalable SaaS provider of cloud-based advanced intelligence solutions. Bronte discusses their AI-driven product recommendation engine for e-commerce. Unlike traditional recommendation engines, Proto AI’s engine suggests complementary items to increase conversion and average order value. They serve various verticals such as e-commerce, gaming, supply chain, and staffing, catering to online retailers in different industries. Bronte also highlights their upcoming dashboard that provides real-time analytics on the performance of product recommendations. She discusses the importance of word-of-mouth referrals and attending events for brand exposure. Their website is an important channel for promoting and showcasing their product while Testing and iterating on messaging are essential to creating better communication. Optimizing both the website and outreach strategies are critical focuses for [boosting conversions](https://pathmonk.com/pathmonk-accelerate/). Bronte emphasizes Proto AI’s mission to empower businesses of all sizes to embrace the next generation of AI in e-commerce.
**On all major****podcasting platforms**
[Google Podcasts](https://podcasts.google.com/?feed=aHR0cDovL3BhdGhtb25rLmxpYnN5bi5jb20vcnNz&hl=en-DE)
[iTunes/Apple Podcast​](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/id1482580026)
## Take The Next Step on Your Growth Journey
Growth Marketers in the show focus mostly on one of the three big problems. Increasing the amount of leads, reducing the customer acquisition cost or improving the lead quality – that’s why they are in growth at the first place. Reports from Gartner & real experience from our guests show that >70% of the buying journey is happening online while the competition for leads online is increasing.
The step-by-step Ebook guide below will help you to get started & analyse the digital buying journey on your website. Take this cheat sheet to accelerate revenue for your company.
Generate better leads to grow your sales
Discover new strategies to unlocking a flood of high-quality leads from your website.
[ **Free Download** ](https://pathmonk.com/boosting-conversions-through-website-optimization/#elementor-action%3Aaction%3Dpopup%3Aopen%26settings%3DeyJpZCI6IjU4Mzk1IiwidG9nZ2xlIjpmYWxzZX0%3D)
