## RELAXING WOMEN’S ONLY YOGA RETREAT IN PEACEFUL NORTH BALI
If we’ve had the pleasure of hosting you at a previous getaway, you know that our in Victoria are far from traditional. There’s no chanting or opening ceremonies in which we ask you to explain why you’re on retreat, and we won’t take you through any ‘goddess’ practices. We _do_ think you _are_ a goddess though, and we’ll remind you of that whilst sharing a drink during our pool-side cocktail hour.
Our **Yoga & Pilates Retreat in North Bali **is a women’s-only boutique getaway in a peaceful corner of the island. This is your chance to recharge your batteries whilst enjoying the pleasures of life: yoga, travelling, great food and company.
**DATES: 28 July – 3 August 2025** SOLD OUT
**[Taking Expressions Of Interest for our next Bali Retreat](https://Retreat-Here.as.me/Bali-2026)**
[Bali Retreat FAQ’s](https://retreathere.com/packages/yoga-retreat-bali/#bali-retreat-faqs)
Want to book a weekend retreat in Victoria instead? Why not join us in the ?
## BALI YOGA RETREAT: ITINERARY & SOLO TRAVELLERS
If you’re after a relaxing & small-scale retreat experience that provides a daily schedule but also gives you plenty of free time, our**Yoga Retreat** **in Bali** is for you.
We have carefully crafted a 7-day retreat itinerary that truly allows you to **Bliss Out in Bali**!
Think nourishing foods, tropical private pool villas, international & local cuisine, optional excursions, poolside cocktail hours, plenty of relaxation, time to explore the area, a full body massage, and of course yoga, Pilates and meditation.
In addition, we give you ample free time in your schedule so you have the option to explore everything that Northwest Bali has to offer, or catch up on zzz’s by the pool.
private pool villa yoga retreat North Bali
### BALI YOGA RETREAT ITINERARY
Besides some potential minor logistical changes depending on suppliers on the ground, the below is a pretty good example of what you can expect at our Yoga & Pilates Retreat in Bali. The length of your yoga classes will vary between 60 and 90 minutes.
**DAY 1**
**3pm** | **Arrival** and Welcome Drink. Say hi to your host, switch off those devices and get ready for a week of relaxation. **3 – 5pm** | Time for you, unpack, enjoy a welcome cocktail and get to know your fellow yogis. **5 – 6pm** | Yin **Yoga,** a slower style yoga class to release tension in both body and mind, whilst learning how you can use your breath to reduce feelings of stress and anxiety. **7pm** | Welcome **Feast** and optional cocktail, perfect for welcoming our Retreat Here community!
**DAY 2**
**7.30am** | **Vinyasa** Slow Flow **9.30am** | **Breakfast** **10.30am – 1.30pm** | Free Time + **Massage** Time Slots **1.30pm** | Healthy **lunch** **3 – 5.30pm** | Free Time + **Massage** Time Slots **5.30pm** | Yoga **Nidra** guided meditation, a ‘deep rest’ and extremely restorative body scan meditation. Learn more about the [benefits and stages of Yoga Nidra](https://retreathere.com/blog/yoga-nidra-guided-meditation/). **6pm** | Sunset **Cocktail** Hour **7pm** | Healthy **Dinner** (either at the villa or in on-site restaurant)
Nightly sunset cocktails
**DAY 3**
**6am** | Optional **Sunrise** hike (to be booked in advance) **8am** | **Pilates** & **stretches** if you’re not hiking **9.30am** | **Breakfast****10.30am – 1.30pm** | Free Time + **Massage** Time Slots **1.30pm** | Healthy **lunch** **3 – 5.30pm** | Free Time + **Massage** Time Slots **6pm** | yoga & **meditation** **7pm** | **Cocktail** Hour and **Shared Dinner**
**DAY 4**
**7.30am** | **Vinyasa** Slow Flow **9.30am** | **Breakfast** **10.30am – 1.30pm** | Free Time + **Massage** Time Slots **1.30pm** | **Healthy Lunch** **3 – 5pm** | Free Time + **Massage** Time Slots **5pm** | /Restorative Yoga **6pm** | Poolside **Cocktail** Hour **7pm** | Healthy **Dinner** (either at the villa or in on-site restaurant)
Private or twin rooms with ensuite bathrooms
**DAY 5**
**8am** | **Pilates** and Stretch Session **9.30am** | **Breakfast** **10.30am – 5pm** | Free Time and optional Transport to the beach. Book another spa session, relax by the pool, enjoy those views. The choice is yours. **5pm | ‘ Slow Mo’ Yoga, **Sab’s signature spinal mobility session**6pm** | **Cocktail** Hour **7pm** | Healthy **Dinner** (either at the villa or in on-site restaurant)
**DAY 6**
**7.30am** | **Vinyasa** Slow Flow **9.30am** | **Breakfast** **10.30am – 1.30pm** | Free Time + **Massage** Time Slots **1.30pm** | Healthy **lunch** followed by free time **5pm | Yin Yoga **Session**7pm** | Healthy **Dinner** (either at the villa or in on-site restaurant)
**DAY 7**
**7.30am** | Gentle **Yoga** **9.30am** | **Breakfast** **11am** | **Check-out**
Wake up with a gorgeous view
### SOLO TRAVELLERS
We absolutely adore solo travellers and we can honestly say that most retreats have a 50/50 split of friends travelling together and women who join our retreats alone.
If you are travelling solo but still want to twin share, that’s no problem at all. We’ll simply pair you with another (female) solo guest and – on request – we will introduce you to one another prior to the retreat so you can have a little chat before sharing a room together.
Even though you might be travelling alone, we promise you won’t ever feel alone, unless you want some space, of course! We’ll guarantee friendly faces, flowing conversation and inspiring friendships, plus plenty of private time just for you. But don’t just take our word for it, here are a couple Google reviews from previous guests.
### REAL REVIEWS BY PREVIOUS GUESTS
”I have been on multiple retreats now, and will continue to do so as each retreat is fantastic. They are thoughtfully scheduled, with a great balance between unscheduled time, classes and group socialising. Sab is genuine and welcoming, and **you can easily attend solo** , knowing that the other attendees are **likeminded**. The venue was outstanding and Sab’s classes catered to all levels of proficiency – as always. I highly recommend Retreat Here if you are looking for an **extremely well run** yoga escape.” – **Kris H.**
”What an **amazing** experience! I attended the Bali retreat **solo**. Sab was wonderful. I immediately felt **comfortable** and loved every minute. The yoga and Pilates classes were **tailored** to meet everyone’s needs and abilities. The food and cocktails were **delicious**. The setting so lush! A completely **relaxing** experience that was so well organised. I can’t wait to attend another one soon.” – **Katie.**
ENQUIRE NOW
## BALI YOGA RETREAT: VENUE, PRICING AND YOUR HOSTESS
All your meals – starting with dinner on your day of arrival and finishing with breakfast on the departure day, are included in your yoga retreat. We are confident that our retreat inclusions will provide you with a perfectly balanced yoga holiday in Northwest Bali.
### BALI YOGA RETREAT PACKAGE – INCLUSIONS:
  * 6 nights accommodation in twin or private room with private open air en-suite bathroom
  * all yoga flows, yin yoga, mobility, yoga Nidra and Pilates sessions as per the itinerary
  * welcome cocktail + dinner
  * daily breakfast incl. Balinese coffee, tea
  * all farm-to-table lunches & dinners at the villas or on-site restaurant
  * nightly sunset cocktail during cocktail hour
  * a delicious drink with each in-house dinner (choose from cocktail, Bintang or Balinese wine)
  * unlimited filtered drinking water
  * 60 mins Balinese massage, and plenty of options to book more massages at Balinese prices!
  * access to two private pool villas, including stunning panoramic views
  * resort access to sauna, plunge pools, public pools and free shuttle to Sumberkima Bay and Mangroove Restaurant


**OPTIONAL ADD-ONS**
  * Hiking
  * Kayaking
  * Snorkelling
  * Temple Tour
  * Kecak Fire Dance (on site!)
  * Facials and Spa Packages
  * Plunge Pool & Sauna


### VENUE & ACCOMMODATION
We are so excited to stay at Sumberkima Hill Retreat in tropical Northwest Bali, far away from the hustle and bustle of the busy South. This private villa resort offers stunning panoramic views of mountains and the ocean, and it’s the perfect place to unwind and relax.
We will stay in two or three separate villas with an open-plan design, gorgeous bedrooms, green gardens, and two private swimming pools. It’s safe to say that our luxury retreat venue is the perfect island hideaway to escape Melbourne winter.
All villas and bedrooms have a minimalist decor, air-conditioning and open-air ensuite bathrooms. You can choose between a private room with ensuite bathroom or twin-share room with ensuite.
private bedroom with ensuite bathroom
We will practice yoga and Pilates in a private yoga shala located close to our villas. Yoga mats, bolsters and blocks are provided, but feel free to bring your own mat.
### RETREAT MEALS AND RESTAURANTS
Depending on the size of our group and individual choices, we will either have our meals together in one of the villas, or we will eat at the on-site restaurants.
Sumberkima Hill offers three restaurants, Suma, Senja & Mangroove Bay. Nourishing and clean food is a huge part of the resort’s philosophy and meals are delicious yet healthy. You will nourish your body with a mix of Indonesian and global foods, all sourced from their organic farm. To top it off, indulge in delightful desserts and tropical cocktails with a view!
View from one of the three-bedroom villas
### RETREAT PRICING
  * ~~$3197 p.p. Deluxe Twin with Open-Air Ensuite Bathroom~~
  * ~~$3697 p.p. Deluxe Private with Open-Air Ensuite Bathroom~~


30% deposit required to guarantee your booking. Please see all T&C’s below.
### NORTHWEST BALI
Come and stay with us in one of the most peaceful and unspoilt parts of Bali, rich in nature and cultural delights.
Staying in the North of Bali will provide a deeply immersive experience where you can learn about the local community and traditional way of living.
The area is close to Barat National Park – a magical piece of paradise filled with mangroves and lush forest. We can help you organise a day trip here, with a local guide of course.
Finally, our villa managers can assist with a free shuttle bus to the nearby beaches or you can stroll through local villages and get a glimpse of local life.
### RETREAT LOCATION NORTHWEST BALI
### BALI YOGA RETREAT HOST
Our Bali Yoga Escape will be hosted by Retreat Here’s founder Sabijn Linssen (Sab). Sab is a qualified yoga & Pilates instructor and has more than 2000+ hours of teaching under her belt. She has been hosting yoga retreats in Victoria since 2017, and with a background in travel and event planning, she’ll make sure you will be taken care of from the moment you book your retreat.
Your host and yoga & Pilates teacher: Sabijn Linssen
Expect energising and creative morning yoga flows as well as restorative yin and yoga nidra sessions in the evening. Besides a daily dose of yoga and meditation, she’ll also take you through a fun Pilates class – and you might get some sneaky core strengtheners in your morning flows!
### TERMS AND CONDITIONS
  * 30% non refundable deposit required to guaranteed your spot
  * 30% due for 2nd instalment – around December ’24 / January ’25
  * 40% due final instalment at least 90 days prior to arrival
  * we will send invoices according to your booking date
  * No refund or transfer if you cancel between 0 and 89 days prior to the retreat.
  * **comprehensive** travel insurance is mandatory
  * you are responsible to organise your travel documents/visa documents
  * 3% surcharge per instalment if you request to pay via credit card (in booking form)


We recommend you read the full cancellation policy for our overseas retreats in the **[Terms and Conditions](https://retreathere.com/terms-conditions/)**
### NOT INCLUDED
  * flights
  * airport transfers
  * travel insurance (mandatory!)
  * visa fees
  * any drinks and food not part of the itinerary
  * any additional massages or spa treatments


ENQUIRE NOW
## READ OUR MOST RECENT GOOGLE REVIEWS
Excellent
4.9
I went on Retreat Here’s recent Yarra Valley retreat and it met all of my expectations. It was relaxing and easygoing. The food was incredible (even though I’m not vegan) and Sab was a wonderful host.
We had yet another fantastic experience in the Yarra Valley. Sab always hosts a fun, relaxed time with excellent food and yoga. Along with a wine tasting from Steelsgate we enjoyed a swim and were treated to kangaroos playing and kookaburras laughing during our yoga!
I went to Retreat Here's 2025 Bali retreat, held at the beautiful Sumberkima Hill in the North West of the island - an area I'd never ventured to before on previous trips to Bali. It was stunning, set amongst the hills overlooking the ocean and the volcanoes of Java in the distance - it was definitely worth the journey to get there. Our villa with private pool was incredible, my room being situated right on the pool's edge. As a solo traveller, I enjoyed having my own space but still being connected to the group of fantastic women whose company I thoroughly enjoyed. Days fell into a welcome holiday rhythm of yoga - breakfast - spa treatment - lunch - pool time - yoga - cocktail hour - dinner - night swim. The food was delicious and generous, and Sab is such a wonderful yoga & Pilates instructor and a fun, kind host. It was the perfect trip to celebrate my 50th birthday. I highly recommend retreating with Sab - near or far!
I’ve just recently returned from the most incredible yoga and Pilates retreat on Toberua Island in Fiji, hosted by Sab from Retreat Here, and I honestly can’t put into words how amazing the experience was.This was my first solo trip overseas without my husband and kids, and while I had moments of hesitation before leaving, it ended up being one of the most empowering and transformative things I’ve ever done for myself.From the moment I arrived on Toberua Island, I felt completely embraced by the energy of the place — peaceful, grounding, and beautifully simple. Sab, was nothing short of phenomenal. Her teaching was intuitive, heartfelt, and incredibly balanced. She held space for everyone in such a warm and supportive way, blending yoga and Pilates in a way that felt both gentle and deeply strengthening. I felt seen, challenged, and cared for in every session.One of the unexpected gifts of this retreat was the other guests. Traveling solo, I wasn’t sure what to expect, but the group was full of friendly, open-hearted women from different walks of life. There was so much laughter, deep conversations, and new friendships.What made this retreat so special wasn’t just the classes or the island (though both were incredible), but the space it gave me to reconnect with myself. As a wife and mum, it’s so easy to pour everything into others and forget what it feels like to just be. This retreat gave me that space, to breathe, to move and to find myself again. I came home feeling grounded, strong, and deeply grateful.If you’re considering a retreat, especially as a solo traveler, I can’t recommend Retreat Here and Sab enough. Toberua Island was the perfect backdrop for what truly became a life-changing experience.
Have just returned from the best yoga holiday in Fiji and have never laughed so much and had so much fun with a great small group of ladies. The island venue was amazing, food was to die for, I loved Sab's yoga and Pilates classes with a focus in the evenings on a slow down class while the mornings were more energising to wake you up. Would definitely recommend!
Great yoga holiday! Sab is a fantastic yoga & Pilates teacher, the island was stunning with lots to do and delicious food. Only downside was the week went by too quick!
I have been to many of Retreat Here's amazing retreats and this one at King Parrot (in the Otways) did not disappoint. The location was great and was surrounded by beautiful views. Sab, the instructor was an awesome teacher and a fantastic host! The food was healthy and delicious (shout out to Izzie, the Chef). Bring on the next one!
Thank you Sab for giving me exactly what I needed from this retreat. Well thought through yoga and pilates classes (suitable for all levels), home cooked, pure & simple (don't underestimate the power of 'simple') food & fun company!Super friendly hosts and an amazing tranquil setting with lots of olive trees & a hammock you can't go wrong really.Thank you for being available and quick in responding to any questions I had, you certainly know your stuff, see you again soon I'm sure.
As always Retreat Here did not let me down.Destination beautiful and villas amazing.Well organised as usual and left feeling relaxed and rejuvenated.Thanks Sab 😘
November 2024: I’ve started losing count of the number of Retreat Here retreats I’ve done since discovering them in 2022.Sab, the Founder/host/instructor offers everything I was looking for. I’m not a regular yogi, and welcome/closing circles are just not my thing. I simply want some downtime from everyday life but with exercise and self-care as the focus. I love socialising but also appreciate having time to myself. I don’t eat red meat but enjoy seafood. Sab accommodates all this, plus some. Each retreat has included a great balance of organised activities in addition to yoga classes. From pasta making, cheese tasting, boat cruising, winery lunch, Greek dancing, sound baths, sunset cocktail, massages….the list goes on, depending on the retreat.Kefalonia Island in Greece was my latest treat. Traditional cuisine which has an Italian influence, prepared by a local cook just for us for both brunch and dinner, with fruit and snacks ensured we never went hungry. Two pools and the yoga deck all amongst olive trees. Different accommodation options of single or twin rooms, with private or shared bathrooms gave some options based on preferences or finances. A driver to take us 10 minutes to town or on a day trip was a mere phone call away. The Mediterranean Sea and beaches were a five minute walk downhill/10 minute uphill. Plenty of choices to fill the days between morning class and brunch and evening classes. And no judgement from Sab if you sat/slept a class out.Since my last post in 2023 I’ve attended a mix of city-escapes, local (regional Victoria), and international retreats. Everything advertised on the website and in the itineraries was well and truly delivered. So much so that I’ve signed up for all three international retreats and one regional Victorian retreat in 2025.Thank you Sab!*********************************The 2023 Bali retreat was the third I’ve done with Retreat Here. I’ve another three more booked across the next 12 months. Sab is unpretentious and welcoming, with all levels of yoga accommodated. The catering is always amazing, regardless of which venue we are at. From the Victorian bush, to Bali beaches, and even a city -day retreat, there’s a destination for everyone. I’ve made great friendships through socialising, but also get to have solo time. Thanks Sab. You’re my go-to for yoga retreats.
Another wonderful yoga retreat provided by the beautiful & dedicated Sab. I have been on a number of Sab’s retreats both domestic & international & I can’t recommend them or her highly enough.Sab’s meticulous, detailed planning & excellent yoga instructing always provides me with balance & clarity. I have already booked in for Tuscany 2025, as I know with Retreat Here I will get the experience I’m looking for.Upon reading the itinerary, all my expectations were met & then some. Kefalonia was everything I had hoped for. The venue was in a serene peaceful location with excellent facilities & our beautiful super comfortable villa cleaned daily, bed made & fresh towels provided, a well-balanced selection of home-cooked food including fruit provided daily, a range of fun activities were planned & transportation provided. The hosts of the venue were extremely warm, friendly & accommodating & it was obvious they have been providing successful yoga retreats regularly.Doing yoga for over 30+ years, I’ve always found Sab’s high-level instructing skills accommodating for all levels, wherever you are within your practice. Whether you’re new or advanced, you can be you with no judgement. She is patient & dedicated to her students & supports you in making your practice an enjoyable fun experience. Sab’s practices take me to a place of calm. Twice daily yoga & Pilates classes were absolutely perfect & I always walked away with balance & peace, additional activities of sound healing was an exceptional moving experience, relaxing massages under the winding olive groves, an informative & interactive winery visit, a captivating fun boat trip, relaxing by the pool & energetic Greek dancing, a fun great team building activity.I have made the most incredible life lasting friendships with some amazing positive like-minded women & always walk away with the inner peace & clarity I was searching for.It’s disappointing a small number of attendees had such unrealistic expectations. Thankfully Sab’s highly accommodating & vibrant positivity in creating such a beautifully balanced retreat helped to ensure my own positive experience & realistic expectations were met.I would highly recommend thoroughly reading the itinerary prior to attending any yoga retreat to ensure it aligns with your expectations. I attend yoga retreats to find inner peace, positivity, balance & clarity. So if this is what you’re looking for…Retreat Here is definitely for you. It’s all about balance! 🧘‍♀️🙏
I recently had the incredible opportunity to attend a retreat in Greece, and it was truly an unforgettable week. Set in a stunning location, the retreat featured fantastic yoga, pilates, and a sound bath, complemented by delicious food and a variety of activities. There was also ample downtime to relax by the pool and enjoy massages. Kefalonia was also a wonderful island, with so much to see, incredible scenery and well worth spending more time on beyond the retreat to explore properly.Sab, the retreat planner, host, and yoga teacher, is exceptional. Her meticulous planning and detailed itinerary ensured everything ran smoothly. Before booking, you can easily review the itinerary on her website, and she’s always ready to answer any questions, helping you confirm that Retreat Here aligns perfectly with your expectations.We practiced yoga twice a day, and Sab skillfully accommodated all levels, ensuring everyone felt comfortable and supported in class.Our days included delightful brunches and dinners, with snacks available throughout. The brunch spread was a treat, featuring fresh fruit, yoghurt, overnight oats, eggs, and many more wonderful delicacies. Dinner showcased local dishes with shared starters and beautifully prepared main courses, so we were never in need of lunch—though there were options nearby if you wanted a midday snack or drink by the water. The food was fresh, local and exactly what you would expect in Greece!The itinerary was well-balanced. While there were scheduled activities, you could opt for extra relaxation time by the pool or beach if that’s what you needed. Highlights included a fantastic boat trip to three swimming spots, a lovely onboard lunch, a winery visit with wine tasting, and an optional olive grove walk. We also enjoyed incredible massages on-site, a nearby beach just a short walk away, and a fun evening at a local taverna as well as a Greek dancing lesson one afternoon.If the idea of morning yoga, a swim in the pool, brunch, activities and relaxation and evening yoga followed by a delicious dinner appeals to you, this retreat is perfect. Sab’s passion for yoga, balance, travel, and fostering connections among like-minded individuals shines through. The accommodation was wonderful, in beautiful villas, very typical to Europe and in particular Greece. The onsite owners and staff of the villas were so accommodating, friendly and wonderful. I can’t recommend these retreats enough—I'd give it ten stars if I could!
I have been on multiple retreats now through Retreat Here and will continue to do so as each retreat is fantastic. Sab is genuine and welcoming and you can easily attend as a solo traveller, knowing that the other attendees are going to be like minded and the company enjoyable.I have recently returned from the retreat held in Kefalonia, Greece, which included thoughtful 2x daily yoga, pilates and meditation classes along with some fabulous additional inclusions. Sab is an amazing instructor who is able to design classes that take all levels of ability and any physical limitations into account, making the classes accessible for everyone.The Greece venue was in a more secluded area, allowing for relaxation by the pool, lounging at the property or a short walk to a beach cove. The outlook from the accommodation was stunning, with amazing views of the water. As with all of Sab’s retreats, the scheduling was a blend of planned activities and free time, allowing you the space to either relax at the property or head out and explore according to your preferences on the days where an included activity was not scheduled.Brunch’s each day included a variety of selections including salad, overnight oats, fresh fruit salad, Greek yoghurt, fresh honey sourced from the venue, fresh bread with various spreads, a different egg based dish each day and a changing slice or cake. Dinners each evening started with a salad and freshly made dips and bread, followed by a local specialty dish (one evening was stuffed capsicum and tomato, another was a vegetarian version of Kefalonia Pie as examples).Also included in the retreat were transfers to and from the airport, a private full day boat tour, a local winery trip including tastings, a full body massage, a Greek dancing lesson, a sound healing meditation and a dinner out at one of the local restaurants.In addition to the above is the opportunity to create enduring friendships with the other attendees. As a regular solo traveller and attendee, it was a pleasure to be able to come along to the Kefalonia retreat with friends originally made through previous retreats. I can’t recommend Retreat Here highly enough for creating retreats that allow you the space to move your body, focus on YOU, provide the opportunity for deep relaxation and the ability to strengthen connections with like-minded women.
I’ve just returned from my second Bali retreat with Sab and Retreat Here and it was just as amazing as the first one! The perfect blend of peace and relaxation, a beautiful yoga practice, energetic Pilates, mouth-watering food, delicious cocktails, and lovely company.Sab is a very special yoga teacher and an amazing host, bringing together like-minded women from all over. It doesn’t matter whether you’re a totally experienced yogi or an absolute beginner, going solo or with friends - you will be completely cared for. I will be going on many more retreats! :)
An incredible week with amazing ladies. Bliss after Bliss! Sab is a fabulous technical instructor while creating a fun, relaxed vibe!! Loved every minute
What an amazing experience! I attended the Bali retreat solo, Sab was wonderful. I immediately felt comfortable and loved every minute. The yoga and Pilates classes were tailored to meet everyone’s needs/ abilities. The food and cocktails were delicious. The setting so lush! A completely relaxing experience, that was so well organised. I can’t wait to attend another one soon!
I have just come back from the June women's only "Retreat Here" Bali yoga retreat, in the stunning Uluwatu region. I highly recommend this experience to any woman who wants to take time out to really look after themselves, both physically and mentally.Sab is a fantastic yoga and pilates teacher - she is calm but funny, and very skilled at creating sessions that, with her support, fit any level of fitness/skill level.The venue was gorgeous, as well as being private - it was so beautiful doing yoga beside the pool, and the rooms were super comfortable. We were close walking distance to an abundance of shops and restaurants, and a short drive away from amazing local sites - Uluwatu temple with its Kecak fire dance performance, the Garuda Wisnu Kencana Statue, and the"Single Fin" surf bar to name a few.The food was delicious and varied, and the cocktails were divine.Sab always creates an environment that feels very safe, friendly and relaxed. She made sure that everyone was happy and had exactly what they needed - if they didn't she would be on to it immediately.I think the retreats are exceptional value for money. If you are trying to decide whether or not to book a retreat with Sab, I would say do it! Your body and your mind will thank you.
I have just finished my second retreat with Sab in the Yarra Valley and I have arrived home feeling healthy, relaxed and more than ready to tackle the week ahead.Once again, the weekend was full of incredible yoga/pilates, amazing food, like minded people and of course, wine!I’m already thinking about my next retreat. If you’re reading this review because you’re looking for a yoga/Pilates retreat either solo or with friends - then stop searching, you’ve found it!
Back from a totally relaxing retreat in Bali with Retreat Here. The venue was amazing. The food was delicious and of course there were the cocktails! Sab’s daily yoga sessions were varied and fun. And I made a group of new friends. Highly recommend!
It’s all about Balance… Be prepared to relax and enjoy!! Thank you to our beautiful Sab for the most blissful yoga retreat in Bali. Sab provides high quality yoga catered to the mood and mindset of her guests for all varied levels & Pilates uplifting (literally my butt) & invigorating. The carefully planned schedule was absolutely perfect allowing plenty of YOU time whether it be massages by the pool or a bintang, reading a book in peace or cocktails with plenty of laughter, adventuring out or chilling with the girls. The venue was perfect, our host/staff incredibly accommodating, the plant based food exquisite & plentiful and the friendships made with my fellow yogis memorable and life lasting. What an amazing group of incredible women to experience this beautiful adventure together. To take time out just for me was one of the best decisions I’ve made & with Sab’s support, guidance & making this all about you, I felt peace & a clearer mindset. It helped me feel relaxed, refreshed rebalanced & reinvigorating. This is my 3rd Retreat with Sab & Retreat Here. I can’t highly recommend her enough. With the care & thought she puts into her retreats & how she has bought such a positive change into my life. Thank you Sab for helping me find my Zen & some much needed ME time, I can’t wait for Greece 2024 🙏
Retreat Here is my go to recommendation for yoga retreats. I have returned from an amazing time at the inaugural Bali retreat which was held in Uluwatu. Sab brought the most fabulous group of women together for the week which consisted of lots of conversations by the pool, daily yoga, pilates, massages, gorgeous food, cocktails and plenty of laughter.As usual, the classes were balanced and well paced for a range of levels. The accommodation was stunning and I returned feeling relaxed with some fantastic new relationships that have continued beyond the retreat.If you have any concerns as a solo traveller, there is absolutely nothing to worry about. Sab is welcoming, warm and always manages to create the perfect environment for everyone to thrive and get what they need from the retreat.
Extremely relaxing, casual, rejuvenating and laid back. Great yoga sessions & tasty wine! Thank you!
I said I will be back and I was. Thanks for another relaxing and nourishing weekend.
HIGHLY recommend Sab and her STUNNING RETREATS. The yoga, accommodation, food, wine and landscape has left me wanting more....AMAZING! A very special weekend away - with an incredibly inspiring host (Sab) and all the fabulously fun women. Loved it! I'll be booking another:)
Sab is a wonderfully vibrant and humble host who truly goes out of her way to make each of her retreat guests feel comfortable, relaxed and connected to their own intentions and desired from the experience. With well thought out yoga sequences and sessions integrated into the retreat, she ensures that each of her guests is grounded and benefits holistically from all the aspects of yoga - including relaxing yin yoga, beautiful morning flows, deeply relaxing yoga nidra and opportunities to explore different methods of asana and mindfulness. This retreat is for anyone that loves yoga (and amazing food/wine)! But also for those who may be new to the practice, as she skillfully guides and facilitates connection to the self and your own experience of each asana/flow. Sab thoughtfully holds space for each of her retreat guests, encouraging true self love and personal time through the abundance of opportunities to connect meaningfully with others, indulge in delicious and nutritious meals, giggle over a glass of bubbles, but also time to just be (however that looks for each of us), with plenty of space for you time. Her enthusiastic and encouraging nature means there is no pressure or expectations, other than making the most of this time for yourself! I truly recommend this retreat to anyone seeking some time away from their busy lives to just be, connect with other wonderful women, find embodiment through yoga and relaxation at its best! Thanks so much Sab, I will definitely be coming to your retreats again! xox
Went to my first retreat in the Otways in December- Great to meet Sab and the gang! The retreats are curated to give everyone time to relax, do yoga, make friends and enjoy delicious/healthy food. Everyone was very welcoming and friendly- would definitely recommend these retreats!
Sab (The Founder) was welcoming, knowledgeable and so much fun to retreat with. The food and wine/ cocktails were amazing and everyone was so impressed with the balance between wellness and having cheeky fun. We had freedom to explore the area / alone time / laughs together at the dinner table and structured well thought out yoga classes that was ultimately body healing and relaxing.
I had a fabulous time on this retreat and am already looking to book in the next one! Sab has created a truly unique experience that I can’t recommend highly enough. The yoga was thoughtfully curated, food amazing and delicious and you couldn’t get a more beautiful setting than the Yarra Valley. Thanks Sab, I felt truly relaxed and rejuvenated!
Fantastic set up and deliverance, massive compliments to Sab and Vanessa. The staff cant wait for you to return
The retreat was so amazing! I had the best time, yoga, food&wine were absolutely divine and Sab was a fantastic host ☺️I will definitely book another one later in the year!
What can I say, Sab is amazing!! From the moment we arrived at Cheeky Fox Retreat we were able to switch off and relax. Our yoga sessions were tailored to the level of the group, with options to advance if the individual needed. The food was amazing, so full of flavor and yummy! Thank you Sab, we will be back!
What a weekend, great venue at the Cheeky Fox, great host with Sab from Retreat Here, we had the best time, relaxed, exercised, well fed and not forgetting the wine, thanks again, we will be back next year!
An amazing retreat experience with yoga classes, relaxation time, great food and wine in a beautiful location. Sab is a fabulous host and an awesome yoga instructor. I have now been on 3 retreats by myself and cannot recommend highly enough!
Wonderful experience at the Cheeky Fox Retreat with Sab! It was an enjoyable and relaxing weekend of wine and dine and of course yoga. It was great spending time at the retreat and was amazing meeting a group of lovely ladies! Will definitely be back next year!
[Bendigo Orthodontic S.](https://search.google.com/local/reviews?placeid=ChIJ-58proVC1moRbLNe82NB7Ik)
I had the most wonderful time at this retreat! Sab is extremely organised and caring, really made the weekend feel special and a space to switch off. I highly recommend this retreat and look forward to attending another in the future. Also, the food was divine!!!
Thankyou Sab for hosting such a wonderfully relaxing weekend! The yoga was just what I needed, and it was great to try a variety of classes (yin, flow, nidra, and sound healing). There was no hectic schedule or pressure to do any activities you didnt want to, so was perfect for a bit of backyard sunning and reading. The food was AMAZING, I cant speak any higher of the wonderful chefs from @madame_feasts who provided delicious canapes, mains and desserts all paired with perfect wines. The venue at the Summer House was beautiful, and nice and close to the beautiful coastline for beach walks. I would come back again in a heartbeat!!
Highly recommended experience! The yoga and wine retreat day tour with Sab was amazing and I came back home that day with a wide smile on my face, my heart filled with good vibes and my mind nourished with good information about Yarra Valley wines and the wine industry. Melbourne’s countryside and Yarra Valley have so much to offer and discover!.... thanks Sab for organizing these amazing trips, such an interesting opportunity to have fun, learn and discover. Yoga and wine retreats are an innovative combination of outdoor yoga (or in case of rain, barrel room yoga!), wine degustations and stunning landscapes.The logistics of the trip was impeccably organised by Sab plus our van driver was a very friendly lady, responsible and knowledgeable. When we arrived at the first stop, we had a beautiful yoga class taught by Sab, I can tell she is the warmest person, her class was inclusive to all levels, and it doesn't matter if you are new at yoga or regular practitioner, everyone will enjoy this session !!! Sab is a sweet and caring teacher.After the class we had the first wine tasting guided by an expert sommelier.Later, we visited a second vineyard with a cozy restaurant settled just in the middle of the green vines, what and amazing panorama!! We enjoyed a delicious lunch with a glass of wine of our choice, that was a great treat! (You have options to cover different dietary needs, food is delicious and dish presentation is gourmet quality.)Finally, we went to a third place where we had a final wine tasting at a large table with all the beautiful ladies participating in the retreat.Personally, I had nobody to accompany me on this adventure, so I went there by myself but I never ever felt lonely. The rest of the group were so nice and friendly ! You have a chance to meet new people, have chats and tons of fun and laughs. Plus, Sab is always there willing to help you when you need it.Last but not least, looking at the price of the yoga and wine tour and the inclusions, it really is great value.Like I said above, I highly recommend this yoga retreat with Sab and I will repeat it as soon as possible!Much loveCecilia
I went on this yoga retreat know one other lady plus of course Sab - I came away having forged some lovely friendships with 5 other ladies as well. The Summer House is absolutely perfect for this retreat location, the food cooked up on Saturday by our personal chefs was amazing and the laughs and of course wine and yoga was just what we all needed. I can't wait to do it all again in March :)
A wonderful weekend with Sab and a fabulous group of ladies I had never met before! It doesn't get much better than a Retreat Here Yoga & Wine Retreat! The Summer House in Torquay was beautiful and the food was amazing! Apart from being an awesome yoga instructor, Sab ensured everyone got what they wanted from the weekend. Lots of laughs, time to relax (be it a nap, a walk or time to read a book), a couple of wines with dinner and of course, plenty of yoga. I had the most enjoyable time and I can't wait for the next retreat in March 2021!
Great yoga class, and well organised trip to the Bellarine Peninsula. The ferry ride across was a great way to go, and the wine tasting was good too, with a knowledgeable host.
I joined the yoga and champagne breakfast sessions and I think it was awesome. Sab is a great instructor, her class is catered for all levels. I love that she takes her time to check on her students and check our alignments. She is very friendly too! Great vibes from both the yoga class and the breakfast.
My mum and I had such a wonderful experience at Sab’s Yoga and Champagne event in St.Kilda. I would definitely do it again and recommend highly to anyone thinking about doing it. Thanks so much Sab!
I recently joined Yoga and champagne breakfast and thoroughly enjoyed it!! Sab is an excellent Yoga instructor and her class caters for different levels.I was a bit rusty as I hadn’t done yoga in a while, and felt great afterwards.Sab is friendly and welcoming (and easy to communicate with before the event), and so were the rest of the group! I highly recommend joining!
## GALLERY



## A TASTER OF OUR YOGA RETREATS
[ Taking EXPRESSIONS OF INTEREST for our next 3-nigh ](https://www.instagram.com/p/DVu7BAPAWxu/)
[ Happy International Women’s Day 2026 from our Yarr ](https://www.instagram.com/p/DVnCHkWgeaH/)
[ While it’s been quiet on the surface, we’ve been b ](https://www.instagram.com/p/DVZxd7dgR4X/)
[ A huge thank you to the incredible women who trust ](https://www.instagram.com/p/DUnGdM-Fz6G/)
[ 🥂 CHEERS TO YOU 🥂 As the year wraps up (and the C ](https://www.instagram.com/p/DSmiQjLF3-Z/)
[ No, not hanging in a sex swing. Just sending you a ](https://www.instagram.com/reel/DR3oSm5AWgT/)
[ 🙏🏼Sold out 🫶🏼 Thank you ](https://www.instagram.com/p/DQsj3WhARy5/)
[ Swipe my pretty, Swipe! 👉🏽 And once you’re all cau ](https://www.instagram.com/p/DQqKHAoAdAx/)
Load More [ Follow on Instagram ](https://www.instagram.com/retreathere/)
## DISCOVER THE TOP REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD GO ON A YOGA RETREAT IN BALI
Are you thinking about a women’s yoga retreat in Bali? If so, Bali is unmistakably the ideal place for such a transformative experience. Nestled among Indonesia’s more than 17,000 islands, Bali is often known as the “Island of the Gods”, and for good reason. 
First visited by Chinese voyagers in 2500 B.C., who set up a complex and effective irrigation system for agriculture that’s still in use today and later discovered by the Dutch in the 16th century, Bali has a rich and varied history and is unique in Indonesia for its particular form of Hinduism. It stands out with over 10,000 temples and an incredible variety of plant and animal life.
And Bali provides far more than palm-lined beaches and a tropical climate. For anyone seeking more than just the typical party atmosphere, Bali is a haven for your spirit. Our group yoga retreat in Bali offers a relaxing escape where you can find peace, purpose, and rejuvenation.
Moreover, beyond its postcard-perfect scenery ready to create picture-perfect moments, Bali captivates with its blend of ancient culture, warm local hospitality, and [serenity and calm](https://retreathere.com/blog/the-easiest-way-to-still-a-busy-mind/). It’s not just a place; it’s a feeling, a renewing and revitalising experience that speaks to the soul – especially when experienced through a yoga retreat designed just for you.
## 8 REASONS WHY TO BOOK THIS WOMEN’S YOGA RETREAT IN BALI
Are you contemplating your next travel adventure but looking for more than a typical holiday? 
Where else can you combine yoga, Pilates, poolside cocktails, and personal growth with a getaway in a destination like Bali? Our yoga retreats speak directly to the heart of anyone who appreciates wellness and self-care, with a pinch of indulgence. Whether you’re a well-practised yogi, a complete beginner, yoga curious, or a solo traveller, we invite you to our group yoga retreat in Bali. 
Here are eight reasons why you should book a women’s retreat in Bali.
### 1. EMBRACE BALI’S HUGE YOGA CULTURE
Besides its natural beauty, one of Bali’s top attractions is the thriving yoga culture. Can you picture yourself basking in the sun in a serene outdoor setting, surrounded by tropical greenery, or overlooking a beach?
Bali is a worldwide meeting point for those passionate about yoga. It’s a positive and supportive environment for women looking to elevate their yoga skills or start a yoga journey for the first time.
### 2. DISCOVER AFFORDABLE LUXURY SHOPPING SPOTS 
Furthermore, in Bali, luxury and affordability go hand-in-hand. You’ll find fantastic splurge opportunities while shopping without the huge price tag. Whether you’re looking for souvenirs to remember Bali, meaningful gifts for loved ones, or intricately handcrafted artwork to become display pieces in your home, Bali’s bargains are a treasure waiting to be discovered.
### 3. INDULGE IN AMAZING SPAS AND MASSAGES 
Bali is famous for its exceptional spa and massage experiences at just a fraction of the cost you’d pay in Australia. Bali is the perfect place to spoil yourself, especially if you’re too busy and a spa is too expensive at home. The only tricky part is choosing to treat yourself to a traditional Balinese massage, a more contemporary spa treatment, or both! 
### 4. BASK IN BALI’S IDEAL WEATHER
Bali boasts a tropical climate that lends itself beautifully to outdoor activities year-round. However, the dry season is particularly charming, typically from May to October. Imagine practising yoga in perfect weather, the type you may daydream about. A gentle breeze, sunshine, and air that is neither too humid nor too dry. Yes please!
### 5. IMMERSE YOURSELF IN BALI’S ENCHANTING NATURE 
Bali’s landscapes are nothing short of breathtaking. The surroundings offer a peaceful setting for reflection and relaxation, from tiered rice paddies to grand volcanoes and beautiful shorelines.
Take a step towards relaxation and allow your natural surroundings to enhance your yoga sessions while increasing your sense of peace and wellbeing, as all your [stresses fade away](https://retreathere.com/blog/10-tips-to-manage-stress/).
### 6. SAVOUR BALI’S HEALTHY CUISINE 
Bali’s cuisine is a feast for the senses. You’ll be spoiled for choice with the wide variety of local and international foods, satisfying even the most refined palates. Whether you are health-conscious or have strict dietary requirements, Bali offers fresh, organic, and locally sourced foods. On top of that, the island produces an exotic selection of regional fruits. Have you ever tasted mangosteen, rambutan, and papaya? They are so delicious you just have to try them all!
### 7. CONNECT WITH BALI’S WELCOMING LOCALS
One of the unsung heroes of any travel experience is the local community, and in Bali, you’ll encounter some of the friendliest and most helpful people on the planet. Their warmth and hospitality can transform a memorable trip into a meaningful journey. Many travellers form lasting connections that make Bali feel like a second home.
### 8. SATISFY YOUR SOLO-TRAVELLING SPIRIT
Finally, if you’re considering venturing on this journey alone, you don’t have to worry. Bali is incredibly welcoming and secure for mature solo women adventurers. The sense of community and openness makes it the ideal location for you to explore on your own terms while still having the chance to engage in group activities and social gatherings at our yoga retreat. 
Our not-so-serious retreats for women are not just a pause from the grind but a complete reset. A yoga retreat in Bali with us gives you the chance to truly connect with yourself and a community of like-minded women, all with Bali’s serene and awe-inspiring landscapes as a backdrop.
There you have it – these eight compelling reasons make a women’s yoga retreat in Bali the perfect choice for solo female travellers seeking more than just a typical vacation.
## BALI YOGA RETREAT FAQ’s
### Q: HOW DO I KNOW IF A WOMEN’S GROUP YOGA RETREAT IS FOR ME?
Deciding whether to go to a group yoga retreat for the first time can often seem overwhelming. Whether you’re a beginner yogi or have a long-time yoga practice, a yoga retreat can be a transformative experience. It provides a dedicated and safe place amongst other women where you can unwind mentally and focus on self-care. It also gives you a chance to fully unwind, as most things – from meals to massages – are taken care of.
Yoga retreats often combine yoga sessions with other activities, such as [meditation](https://retreathere.com/blog/meditation-for-beginners/), hiking, and spa treatments. And at our retreats, you can even enjoy a cheeky cocktail while relaxing poolside. 
Are you looking to rekindle your passion for yoga? Do you want a break from the stresses of daily life? Do you want to experience a new culture and destination while combining it with yoga? And do you love meeting new people, share travel stories, and make genuine connections with like-minded women? If you answered yes to any of these questions then going to a yoga retreat is highly recommended!
### Q: WHICH AIRPORT SHOULD I FLY INTO?
The most convenient airport to fly into for our Bali yoga retreat is Denpasar Ngurah Rai International Airport (DPS). The airport is serviced by most major airlines. If you are travelling from Australia, you can choose between Qantas, Virgin Australia as well as Jetstar Airlines.
### Q: ARE FLIGHTS INCLUDED IN THE RETREAT PRICE?
No. You will have to book your own flights.
### Q: DO I HAVE TO BOOK TRAVEL INSURANCE?
Absolutely yes. Comprehensive travel insurance is mandatory to join our retreats.
### Q: ARE AIRPORT TRANSFERS INCLUDED?
Airport transfers are not included in the retreat price. We will however give you information about local drivers and we can also help you coordinate your transfers before and after the retreat.
### Q: DO I NEED TO BRING MY OWN YOGA MAT?
We recommend bringing your own yoga mat, especially if you have a ‘go-to’ yoga mat. We also provide yoga mats and blocks.
### Q: I’VE ONLY DONE YOGA A FEW TIMES? WILL THE CLASSES BE TOO ADVANCED?
No. We always ensure our yoga & Pilates classes are geared towards all levels.
### Q: IF I WANT TO SKIP A CLASS OR ACTIVITY, IS THAT OK?
Yes. Of course we’d love to have you attend all yoga and Pilates classes, but we equally understand if you need a little break, or prefer to go for a walk, or have a sleep in instead. No problem!
### Q: WHAT SHOULD I PACK FOR THIS YOGA RETREAT?
We will give you a full packing list about one month prior to the retreat.
### Q: DO I NEED A VISA?
This depends on your nationality. Your best bet is to check the [**SmarTraveller**](https://www.smartraveller.gov.au/) website, or check with your local travel agent. Your passport has to be valid for at least 6 months from your arrival date.
### Q: WHY CHOOSE BALI AS MY YOGA RETREAT DESTINATION?
What makes Bali a standout choice for a retreat? Imagine an island that marries spiritual serenity, awe-inspiring nature and a rich tapestry of culture. Picture landscapes that shift from tranquil jungles to towering mountains and pristine shorelines. Bali’s picturesque backdrop and magical energy have made it one of the top destinations for yoga and wellness retreats.
#### BALI IS ASIA’S YOGA EPICENTRE
There are many reasons why people go to Bali for yoga. It isn’t just popular; it’s a yoga epicentre. Bali sets the right tone for immersing yourself in yoga, whether it’s the tranquillity of the surroundings or the profoundly spiritual culture. The landscape features sun-kissed beaches and lush jungles, adding magic to your yoga retreat experience.
Still unsure if a group retreat is for you? Here are [**seven more reasons to book a women’s yoga holiday**](https://retreathere.com/blog/reasons-to-book-womens-group-yoga-retreat/).
ENQUIRE NOW
