Opens in a new window Opens an external website Opens an external website in a new window
Close this dialog 
This website utilises technologies such as cookies to enable essential site functionality, as well as for analytics, personalisation, and targeted advertising. You may change your settings at any time or accept the default settings. You may close this banner to continue with only essential cookies.  [Privacy Policy](https://www.wiley.com/privacy)
Manage Preferences  Accept All  Reject Non-Essential 
Close Cookie Preferences 
[Worldviews on Evidence-Based Nursing](https://sigmapubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/17416787 "Worldviews on Evidence-Based Nursing homepage")
[Volume 20, Issue 1](https://sigmapubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/toc/17416787/2023/20/1) pp. 6-15
REVIEW ARTICLE
Open Access
# Evidence-based practice improves patient outcomes and healthcare system return on investment: Findings from a scoping review
[ … See all authors ](https://sigmapubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/wvn.12621#)
First published: 08 February 2023
<https://doi.org/10.1111/wvn.12621>
[Correction added on August 28, 2023, after first online publication: The Supplemental References file has now been provided in the Supporting Information.]
Connor, <https://doi.org/10.1111/wvn.12621>
## Abstract
###  Background
Evidence-based practice and decision-making have been consistently linked to improved quality of care, patient safety, and many positive clinical outcomes in isolated reports throughout the literature. However, a comprehensive summary and review of the extent and type of evidence-based practices (EBPs) and their associated outcomes across clinical settings are lacking.
###  Aims
The purpose of this scoping review was to provide a thorough summary of published literature on the implementation of EBPs on patient outcomes in healthcare settings.
###  Methods
A comprehensive librarian-assisted search was done with three databases, and two reviewers independently performed title/abstract and full-text reviews within a systematic review software system. Extraction was performed by the eight review team members.
###  Results
Of 8537 articles included in the review, 636 (7.5%) met the inclusion criteria. Most articles (63.3%) were published in the United States, and 90% took place in the acute care setting. There was substantial heterogeneity in project definitions, designs, and outcomes. Various EBPs were implemented, with just over a third including some aspect of infection prevention, and most (91.2%) linked to reimbursement. Only 19% measured return on investment (ROI); 94% showed a positive ROI, and none showed a negative ROI. The two most reported outcomes were length of stay (15%), followed by mortality (12%).
###  Linking Evidence to Action
Findings indicate that EBPs improve patient outcomes and ROI for healthcare systems. Coordinated and consistent use of established nomenclature and methods to evaluate EBP and patient outcomes are needed to effectively increase the growth and impact of EBP across care settings. Leaders, clinicians, publishers, and educators all have a professional responsibility related to improving the current state of EBP. Several key actions are needed to mitigate confusion around EBP and to help clinicians understand the differences between quality improvement, implementation science, EBP, and research.
##  INTRODUCTION
###  Background
It has been three decades since evidence-based practices (EBPs) were first introduced in the healthcare literature (Evidence-Based Medicine Working Group, ). EBP is the recognized and desired standard for international transdisciplinary healthcare providers and is supported by national, international, and professional healthcare organizations and regulatory agencies, such as the American Nurses Credentialing Center (ANCC, ), the American Nurses Association (ANA, ), the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC, ), the National Academy of Medicine (NAM, ). The goals of evidence-based decision-making (EBDM) are to reduce variations in practice, enhance the quality of care, improve patient outcomes, and reduce costs (Melnyk & Fineout-Overholt, ). Numerous articles have been published on EBP, and many EBP guidelines are available to guide much of the care clinicians provide. The underlying assumptions of EBP are that EBPs result in better patient outcomes and are associated with reducing errors, risks, and costs. However, to our knowledge, there has been no comprehensive review of the breadth and depth of EBPs implemented and their impact on outcomes across settings and populations. Therefore, this scoping review aimed to determine the frequency, type, characteristics, and outcomes of EBPs implemented in healthcare settings.
##  METHODS
A structured protocol for this review was created a priori by members of the review team. The scoping review methodology was selected as it seeks to provide an overview of the scope of existing literature and is most appropriate when an extensive body of literature has not been comprehensively and systematically reviewed. The review team for this approach included healthcare providers with decades of clinical practice experience and expertise in EBP, implementation science (IS), and systematic review methodology. The process and criteria for this scoping review followed the procedures outlined by Grant and Booth (), and the findings are reported in congruence with the checklist for Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping Reviews (PRISMA-ScR; McGowan et al., ; Tricco et al., ). The Covidence systematic review software was used for all stages of the review, including title and abstract screening, full-text review, and data extraction.
The primary research question was, “When patients receive care based on evidence, what are the outcomes?” The secondary research question was, “What type, frequency, and characteristics of EBPs were published in peer-reviewed journals?”
###  Electronic search
A medical librarian conducted a systematic search for published English-language literature and searched the reference lists for additional publications to identify published papers addressing EBP and patient outcomes. The databases searched were OVID MEDLINE, EMBASE, and Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL). These databases were searched from 1992 through July 5, 2020. We chose 1992 because this is when evidence-based medicine (EBM) was first introduced in the literature. The search used a combination of keywords and controlled vocabulary for the concepts addressing “evidence-based practice,” “outcomes,” and “hospitals,” which were adapted to each database. In addition, a hand search of reference lists of articles was used to discover publications not identified in the database searches. The search results and study selection process are illustrated in Table [1](https://sigmapubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/wvn.12621#wvn12621-tbl-0001 "Link to table") and Figure [1](https://sigmapubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/wvn.12621#wvn12621-fig-0001).
1 | (“evidence based practice “or “evidence based dentistry “or “evidence based medicine “or “evidence based nursing “or “evidence based pharmacy “or “evidence based practices “or “evidence based treatments” or “evidence based treatment “or “evidence based intervention “or “evidence based interventions “or “EBP “or “EBM “or “EBD “or “evidence-based health care “or “based evidence-based healthcare”). ab, ti.  
---|---  
2 | exp Evidence-Based Practice/  
3 | 1 or 2  
4 | (“Patient Satisfaction” or “Patient experience” or “Patient Experiences” or “Pressure Ulcer” or “Pressure Ulcers” or “Pressure Ulceration” or “Pressure Ulcerations “or “Decubitus Ulcer” or “Decubitus Ulcers” or “Pressure Sore” or “Pressure Sores” or “Pressure Injury” or “Pressure Injuries” or “Bed Sore” or “Bed Sores “or “Bedsore” or “Bedsores” or “Fall Rate” or “Fall Rates “or “Readmission” or “Readmissions” or “Rehospitalization” or “Rehospitalizations “or “Morbidity “or “Morbidities” or “Mortality” or “Mortalities” or “Fatality Rates” or “Fatality Rate” or “Fatal Outcome” or “Fatal Outcomes” or “Death rate” or “Death rates” or “Stay Length” or “Hospital Stay” or “Hospital Stays” or “Accidental Fall” or “Accidental Falls” or “Observation Stay” or “Observation Stays” or “Infection Rate” or “Infection Rates “or “sentinel event” or “sentinel events” or “Infection Rate” or “Infection Rates “or “Cross Infections” or “Cross Infections” or “Healthcare Associated Infections” or “Healthcare Associated Infection” or “Health Care Associated Infection” or “Health Care Associated Infections” or “Hospital Infection” or “Nosocomial Infection” or “Nosocomial Infections” or “Hospital Infections” or “Sentinel events” or “Missed care” or “Patient Outcome” or “Patient Outcomes”).ab,ti.  
5 | Accidental Falls/  
6 | exp Patient Satisfaction/  
7 | “Length of stay”/ or patient readmission/  
8 | Pressure Ulcer/  
9 | morbidity/ or mortality/ or hospital mortality/  
10 | exp Cross Infection/  
11 | exp Patient Outcome Assessment/  
12 | (Falls adj2 injury).ab,ti.  
13 | (Fall adj2 injuries).ab,ti.  
14 | 4 or 5 or 6 or 7 or 8 or 9 or 10 or 11 or 12 or 13  
15 | (“Health Facility” or “Health Facilities “or “Hospital “or “Hospitals” or “Medical Center” or “Medical Centers “or “Ambulatory Care Facility” or “Ambulatory Care Facilities” or “Outpatient Clinics” or “Outpatient Clinic” or “Outpatient Facility “or “Outpatient Facilities “or “Urgent Care Centers” or “Urgent Care Center” or “Family Planning Centers” or “Family Planning Center” or “Ambulatory Health Center” or “Ambulatory Health Centers” or “Free Standing Clinic” or “Free Standing Clinics” or “Ambulatory Care Facilities” or “Dental Facility “or “Dental Facilities” or “Dental Offices” or “Dental Office “or “Dental Clinic” or “Dental Clinics “or “Observation Unit” or “Observation Units “or “Emergency Room “or “Emergency Rooms” or “Delivery Room “or “Delivery Rooms” or “Birthing Center” or “Birthing Centers” or “Birth Centers” or “Birth Center” or “Hospital Unit” or “Hospital Units “or “Hemodialysis Unit” or “Hemodialysis Units” or “Intensive Care Unit” or “Intensive Care Units” or “Burn Unit” or “Burn Units” or “Burn Center” or “Burn Centers “or “Coronary Care Unit” or “Coronary Care Units” or “Recovery Room “or “Recovery Rooms “or “Respiratory Care Unit” or “Respiratory Care Units” or “Hospital Nurseries” or “Hospital Nursery “or “Nurse Station” or “Nurse Stations” or “Operating Room “or “Operating Rooms “or “Care Unit” or “Care Units” or “Care Center” or “Care Centers “or “Rehabilitation Center” or “Rehabilitation Centers” or “Rehab Center” or “Rehab Centers “or “Treatment Center” or “Treatment Centers “or “Community Health Center” or “Community Health Centers “or “Residential Facility “or “Residential Facilities” or “Assisted Living Facility” or “Assisted Living Facilities” or “Nursing Home” or “Nursing Homes “or “Intermediate Care Facility” or “Intermediate Care Facilities” or “Skilled Nursing Facility “or “Skilled Nursing Facilities “or “Extended Care Facility” or “Extended Care Facilities or Health System” or “Health Systems”).ab,ti.  
16 | health facilities/ or exp academic medical centers/ or exp ambulatory care facilities/ or exp biological specimen banks/ or exp dental facilities/ or exp hospital units/ or exp hospitals/ or exp nurseries, infant/ or exp rehabilitation centers/ or exp residential facilities/  
17 | 15 or 16  
18 | 3 and 14 and 17  
19 | limit 18 to (English language and yr = “1992 – Current”)  
**FIGURE 1**
[Open in figure viewer](https://sigmapubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/wvn.12621#)[PowerPoint](https://sigmapubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/action/downloadFigures?id=wvn12621-fig-0001&partId=&doi=10.1111%2Fwvn.12621)
PRISMA 2020 flow diagram for new systematic reviews, which included searches of databases and registers only. Adapted from “The PRISMA 2020 statement: an updated guideline for reporting systematic reviews,” by M. J. Page, J. E. McKenzie, P. M. Bossuyt, I. Boutron, T. C. Hoffmann, C. D. Mulrow, et al., 2021, _BMJ_ , 372, n71. <https://doi.org/10.1136/bmj.n71>. For more information, visit: <http://www.prisma-statement.org/>
###  Study selection
All references were uploaded to Covidence software, and duplicates were removed. Articles were included if they described original work where an EBP was implemented and measured patient outcome(s). Articles that did not discuss patient outcomes were excluded (i.e., clinician outcomes). Review articles, commentary or editorial, abstracts, and conference proceedings were excluded.
###  Review and extraction process
Covidence was used for all stages of the review process. Eight independent EBP expert reviewers conducted the reviews (LC, JD, DT, AS, PFG, AH, LM, LGF). Two reviewers first performed title and abstract screening, followed by a full-text review to verify eligibility criteria for inclusion in the review. The inclusion criteria were that the article described implementing an EBP change and measuring a patient outcome. Two reviewers then performed data extraction using a structured extraction tool within the Covidence software system. Extraction elements included year and country of publication, first author discipline (physician, nurse, pharmacist, etc.), EBPs implemented, methodological approach (research, quality improvement (QI), IS, EBP), population, body system (cardiac, pulmonary, behavioral health, etc.), setting (acute care, rehabilitation, long-term care, ambulatory, ICU, Medical/surgical), return on investment (ROI), and outcomes (see Table [2](https://sigmapubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/wvn.12621#wvn12621-tbl-0002 "Link to table")). At any stage of the review process, disagreements were resolved by consensus through a third reviewer.
EBP implemented: Yes or no | Who led the team: Physician, nurse, other  
---|---  
First Author: | Was there more than one intervention: yes or no  
Year of Publication: | Were there more than 3 interventions: yes or no  
Country: Africa, Asia, Australia, Canada, Europe, Latin America, Middle East, UK/Ireland/Scotland, The United States, other | Was ROI Measured: yes or no  
Setting: academic/teaching hospital, ambulatory, government hospitals, long-term care, non-academic, rehab/skilled facility, other | Result of ROI: positive, no change, negative  
Multi Centers yes or no | Evidence-based Intervention #1, #2, and #3: communication, education, formal bundle (i.e., CLABSI, VAP), practice change (s) (non-formal bundle, practice guideline, staffing/workload, standardized protocol, other  
Area of Care: ambulatory, critical care, ER, maternal child, medical, medical/surgical, multiple (more than one unit), perioperative/OR, psych, other | How were the Outcome Measures#1, #2, and #3: compared to external benchmarks, compared to internal data/performance, both  
Population: adults, geriatrics, maternal, neonates, pediatrics, other | What was the outcome for #1, #2, and #3: anxiety/depression/PTSD/behavior health, CAUTI, CLABSI, complications, compliance/adherence, delirium, ERAS, falls, HAPI, length of stay, morbidity, mortality, N/V, other infections, pain, patient access, patient experience/satisfaction, patient/family knowledge, postop recovery, readmissions, SSI, VAP/VAE/NVHAP, other  
System/Specialty: cardiac, dermatology, EENT, endocrine, GI/GU, hematology, infectious disease, musculoskeletal, neuro, oncology, pain, palliative care, plastics, pulmonary, psych/mental health, reproductive, skin/wound/ostomy, other | What were the Outcome Results for #1, #2, and #3: Improved, No Change, Worse  
Initiative/ Study Design: EBP, QI, implementation science, research, other  
  * Abbreviations: CAUTI, catheter associated urinary tract infection; CLABSI, central line associated bloodstream infections; EBP, evidence-based practice; EENT, Ears eyes nose throat; ER, emergency room; ERAS, enhanced recovery after surgery; GI, gastrointestinal; GU, genitourinary; HAPI, hospital acquired pressure injury; N/V, nausea vomiting; NVHAP, non-ventilated hospital acquired pneumonia; OR, operating room; PI, performance improvement; PTSD, post-traumatic stress disorder; QI, quality improvement; SSI, surgical site infection; VAE, ventilator associated event; VAP, ventilator associated pneumonia. 


###  Definitions
To establish transparency and consistency among the reviewer pairs, the five definitions were determined a priori to guide decisions regarding inclusion, exclusion, and extraction of items from published reports: 
  1. _Research_ is conducted to generate new knowledge about a particular concern or problem using scientific methods and can be experimental, observational, or descriptive. Existing research can be synthesized and analyzed to create new concepts, methodologies, and or understandings.
  2. _Evidence-based practice_ is defined as a problem-solving approach to clinical decision-making that integrates the best evidence from research with a clinician's expertise and a patient's personal preferences and values (Melnyk & Fineout-Overholt, ). When the term EBP is used, it means that a searchable question was written, a literature search was completed, the external evidence was critically appraised/synthesized, and the compelling body of evidence led to the best practice recommendation(s). Once a best practice is identified, clinicians use their clinical expertise and consider patients' values and preferences when making decisions.
  3. _Quality improvement_ (QI) focuses on processes to improve efficiencies and eliminate waste (anything that does not add value) within a hospital or healthcare system. Rapid-cycle improvement strategies (i.e., Plan-Do-Study-Act) are used to make changes, and then outcomes are observed and measured. The NAM, formerly the Institute of Medicine, defines QI as “the degree to which health services for individuals and populations increase the likelihood of desired health outcomes and are consistent with current professional knowledge” (Institute of Medicine US Committee on Quality of Health Care in America, ).
  4. _Implementation Science_ (IS) is defined as “…the scientific study of methods to promote the systematic uptake of research findings and other EBPs into routine practice and, hence, to improve the quality and effectiveness of health services” (Eccles & Mittman, , p. 1). Implementation Science and QI differ by having different emphases. Once a best practice is identified using the EBP methodology, a process model such as QI or IS can be used to move the evidence into practice. Hence the goal of IS is not to establish the health impact of clinical innovation but rather to identify the factors that affect its uptake into routine use.
  5. _Return on investment_ (ROI) is a performance measure used to evaluate the efficiency of an investment. It is calculated using a ratio that divides the net profit (or loss) related to the investment cost. The Institute for Healthcare Improvement (IHI) website presents a framework for calculating the economic ROI of a specific evidence-based environmental design intervention (Sadler et al., ).


##  RESULTS
###  Article characteristics
This is the first known review to synthesize the literature on implementing evidence-based care and patient outcomes. Of the 8537 articles included in the review, 1378 moved to full-text review after the title and abstract were reviewed. After reviewing the full-text articles, more than half, 742 (54%), did not meet inclusion criteria for the following reasons. In 32% (_n_ = 442) of the articles, there was no EBP implemented, and 20% (_n_ = 274) of the articles were excluded because they solely focused on clinician compliance with EBP as the outcome of interest rather than a patient outcome. Although clinician compliance is an important topic that deserves attention, it was not the focus of this scoping review. Of the remaining articles, 2% (_n_ = 26) were duplicate, non-English, or commentaries and were, therefore, excluded.
A total of 636 articles met eligibility to be included in this review, and the references are available in online supplemental materials. There was a steady increase in the number of publications between 1998 (_n_ = 1) and 2019 (_n_ = 65), with a decline in 2020, likely due to this review including publications completed only through July 5, 2020. The majority, 76% (_n_ = 483), were published between 2010 and 2020. Most of the literature originated in the United States (US; _n_ = 402), followed by Asia (_n_ = 50), Europe (_n_ = 49), Australia/New Zealand (_n_ = 34), the UK (_n_ = 33), and other locations (_n_ = 68). Each article's first author or principal investigator (PI) was extracted to help understand which disciplines were publishing EBP work. Nurses and physicians were often the first authors or principal investigators (PI) at 273 and 305, respectively. Nurses were more likely to author QI/EBP (_n_ = 201) compared to research (_n_ = 72), whereas physicians were more likely to author research (_n_ = 200) compared to QI/EBP (_n_ = 105). Sixty articles were authored by other healthcare personnel such as pharmacists, physical therapists, and administrators.
Over 90% of the articles described EBP practices in acute care hospital settings (_n_ = 573). The remaining 10% of the EBP practices were implemented in ambulatory (_n_ = 38), psychiatry (_n_ = 19), and long-term care or rehabilitation settings (_n_ = 6). Most works were conducted with adults (_n_ = 493), followed by children (_n_ = 67), and neonates (_n_ = 43). Nineteen articles included a combination of two or more populations. EBPs were implemented across a variety of systems including infectious disease (_n_ = 113), cardiac (_n_ = 72), pulmonary (_n_ = 62), musculoskeletal (_n_ = 61), and gastro-intestinal/genital-urinary systems (_n_ = 53).
###  Types of EBPS implemented
Various types of EBPs were implemented and included single or multiple components, all with various time points for implementation and evaluation. Because of the substantial heterogeneity of the specific types of EBPs implemented, results were categorized by content area and grouped into domains. If three or more articles reported a specific EBP, it received its own category header, resulting in 51 categories of EBPs. For example, articles that evaluated components for reducing central line-associated bloodstream infections (CLABSI) were placed in the CLABSI EBP category (Freixas et al., ; Seddon et al., ; Short, ). Similarly, an EBP for ST-segment elevation management (Niles et al., ) was placed in a Cardiac EBP category. If an EBP was reported in only 1–2 articles, it was assigned to the Other EBP category (_n_ = 55). Articles that reported on multiple EBPs that were not an established bundle (i.e., the ABCDEF bundle) were designated in the Multiple EBP category (_n_ = 9).
The 51 initial category headers were then grouped into 34 overarching domains. As displayed in Figure [2](https://sigmapubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/wvn.12621#wvn12621-fig-0002), the majority of EBPs included some aspect of infection prevention therefore creating the Infection Prevention EBP domain (_n_ = 175), which included prevention of ventilator-associated pneumonia (_n_ = 54), C LABSI (_n_ = 43), catheter-associated urinary tract infections (CAUTI; _n_ = 20), sepsis (_n_ = 24), surgical site infections (SSI; _n_ = 19), and other infection practices (_n_ = 15). Similarly, the Cardiac/Cardiac Care EBP domain (_n_ = 62) included implementation of best practices for the acute coronary syndrome (_n_ = 38), heart failure (_n_ = 17), and cardiac surgery (_n_ = 7), while the Neurology/Neurosurgery EBP domain (_n_ = 26) included best practices for stroke care (_n_ = 9), neurological conditions, (_n_ = 7), neurosurgical care (_n_ = 6), and traumatic brain injuries (TBI) care (_n_ = 4). Articles that evaluated EBPs for asthma (_n_ = 10), bronchiolitis (_n_ = 6), pneumonia care (_n_ = 5), and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD; _n_ = 4) each received their own initial category and then were grouped under the larger Pulmonary Care EBP domain (_n_ = 25). Similarly, EBPs that included general neonatal care (_n_ = 13), neonatal nutrition (_n_ = 6), and neonatal temperature management (_n_ = 3) received their own initial category and were combined to create the larger Neonatal Care EBP domain (_n_ = 22). Additional domains include EBPs implemented for Fall Prevention (_n_ = 40) and prevention/treatment of Hospital-Acquired Pressure Injuries (HAPI; _n_ = 39). A variety of EBPs was reported in Obstetric Care (_n_ = 20), Behavioral Health Care (_n_ = 20), and Gastrointestinal (GI) Care (_n_ = 18) and were identified as unique domains. The smallest domains included EBPs in the areas of Restraints (_n_ = 3), Oral Care (_n_ = 3), Geriatric Care (_n_ = 3), Genitourinary (GU) Care (_n_ = 3), and Rehabilitation Care (_n_ = 3).
**FIGURE 2**
[Open in figure viewer](https://sigmapubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/wvn.12621#)[PowerPoint](https://sigmapubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/action/downloadFigures?id=wvn12621-fig-0002&partId=&doi=10.1111%2Fwvn.12621)
Types of EBPs implemented: EBP domains
###  Outcomes
While the scoping review was designed to provide a review of EBP and patient outcomes along with ROI, several organizational outcomes were reported in the articles (e.g., blood product administration, discharge time, emergency room throughput), and are reported in this review. Figure [3](https://sigmapubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/wvn.12621#wvn12621-fig-0003) shows the top 16 outcomes measured in at least 20 articles. They are listed in descending order from the largest number of times the outcome was measured and by the outcome results (improvement, no change, or worse outcome).
**FIGURE 3**
[Open in figure viewer](https://sigmapubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/wvn.12621#)[PowerPoint](https://sigmapubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/action/downloadFigures?id=wvn12621-fig-0003&partId=&doi=10.1111%2Fwvn.12621)
Impact of EBPs on patient outcomes
At least 752 EBPs were implemented, and possibly more as the maximum amount accounted for in each article was three. There were 1020 patient outcomes that were measured, which represented both organizational and patient outcomes (Figure [3](https://sigmapubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/wvn.12621#wvn12621-fig-0003)). Of the total patient outcomes measured, 908 (89.0%) improved, 104 (10.2%) showed no change, and eight (0.008) worsened. The outcome most often worsened was the length of stay (_n_ = 4).
Length of stay (_n_ = 155) was the outcome measured most often followed by mortality (_n_ = 122), patient compliance/adherence (_n_ = 59), readmissions (_n_ = 57), CLABSI (_n_ = 52), ventilator-associated pneumonia/non-ventilator associated pneumonia (VAP/NVAP; _n_ = 48), HAPI (_n_ = 47), falls (_n_ = 42), morbidity (_n_ = 34), CAUTI (_n_ = 32), patient satisfaction (_n_ = 31), SSI (_n_ = 25), patient anxiety/depression (_n_ = 24), patient complications (_n_ = 23), other infections (_n_ = 21), and pain (_n_ = 20). A total of 792 outcomes were measured at least 20 times; 90% reported an improved outcome, 9.5% reported no change in outcomes, and 0.5% reported a worse outcome. Other less frequently reported outcomes (<20 articles; _n_ = 228) were blood product administration (_n_ = 7), antibiotic administration (_n_ = 6), cesarean rates (_n_ = 4), cancer-related fatigue (_n_ = 2), breastfeeding (_n_ = 2), functional status (_n_ = 5), hypothermia (_n_ = 4), hypotension (_n_ = 1), hypoglycemia (_n_ = 7), discharge times (_n_ = 1), delirium (_n_ = 2), restraints (n = 2), ventilator days (n = 3), and venous thrombotic embolism (_n_ = 2).
Only 119 articles (19%) of the 638 measured ROI. When ROI was measured, it was positive 94% of the time (_n_ = 112). Seven articles (6%) showed no change in ROI, and no EBPs resulted in negative ROI. The actual strategies implemented varied and included practice changes (_n_ = 196), standardized protocols (_n_ = 161), practice guidelines (_n_ = 128), formal bundles (_n_ = 127) and 26 others.
##  DISCUSSION
###  Findings
The scoping review revealed a growing volume of EBP work being conducted. However, there was wide heterogeneity in approaches, designs, and outcomes measured among the articles included in the review. These fragmented approaches lead to an inability to build upon prior work. Interestingly, only 638 (7.5%) of the articles met the simple inclusion requirement; implementation of evidence and measuring patient outcomes. In other words, measuring the impact of EBP on patient outcomes. Most (7899 articles) spoke of EBP but did not include one or both of the inclusion components: (1) the use of EBP process/methodology and (2) measurement of a patient outcome. In fact, from a total of 638 articles, 43% were conducted using a research methodological approach to implement or measure an EBP instead of an EBP methodological approach. The frequent mention of EBP without actually conducting any EBP work reflects that EBP has become a buzzword and is regularly misused or out of context.
The measurement of ROI was limited, as only 19% (_n_ = 121) of the included articles measured ROI in any way. Most of the current evidence-based work was associated with reimbursement or accreditation outcomes, resulting in many important outcomes being overlooked (e.g., infant mortality, neonatal and child health, mental health). Although many of the articles (35.7%) explored areas of care not associated with reimbursement or accreditation, reflecting that evidence is being utilized to improve care for reasons other than money or financial gain, meaningful outcomes were still notably absent (obesity, oncology/cancer care, neonatal and child health, mental health, maternal health, and geriatric populations). The predominance of EBP work being completed was conducted in the large domain of infections and occurred in acute care settings with adult populations. It is worth noting that many EBPs were implemented in a broad range of other care areas, settings, and populations, reflecting a robust variety of EBP work.
Finally, nurses and physicians were equally represented as lead authors. Nurses tended to utilize the EBP methodological approach, while physicians used research methodological approaches when implementing and measuring established EBPs.
###  Gaps identified
The significant gap in EBP work addressing important healthcare issues, like obesity, oncology/cancer care, neonatal and child health, mental health, maternal health, and geriatric populations was concerning especially because of their substantial impact on public health. Maternal mortality rates in the United States (U.S.) are the highest among all industrialized countries (Tikkanen, ) and health disparities in infant mortality are highly prevalent with Black infants having a substantially higher death rate than White infants (Matoba & Collins Jr., ). Mental health conditions are epidemic in the U.S., and globally it is estimated that the world population over 60 will nearly double from 12% to 22% by the year 2050 (World Health Organization, ). In addition, there was a significant lack of measuring the ROI of EBP work, as only 19% (_n_ = 121) of the included articles measured ROI in any way.
Also revealed were gaps in the appropriate application of research and EBP methodology. Although nurses tended to utilize the EBP methodological approach more than physicians, this approach was not consistently applied by any discipline. This is disconcerting because EBP has a rigorous methodology that has been well established for decades (Evidence-Based Medicine Working Group, ). EBP methodology requires the formation of a searchable, non-biased PICOT question, a structured search of the literature, rigorous critical appraisal and synthesis, resulting in a body of evidence (research that has already been conducted, implementation of the EBP or practice change in real-world settings, and outcomes evaluation). When EBP methodology is conducted, it is critical that the outcomes are measured; however, utilizing research methodology (for implementation or measurement) is unnecessary and inappropriate. This aligns with a recent paper by Gallagher-Ford and Melnyk (), identifying that much EBP work is being conducted as research and over-measured. There are multiple reasons why this confusion may be occurring. For example, nursing and health sciences students are educated primarily on research methodology, not EBP; many organizations provide time and monetary support for conducting research and QI, not EBP; and manuscript publication guidelines/requirements for authors are structured only for publishing research and QI, not EBP. It also is important that all QI be conducted as evidence-based QI (EBQI) with a review and critical appraisal of a body of evidence before a decision is made about an evidence-based practice change to be implemented (Melnyk et al., ).
###  Recommendations
Based on the findings and gaps that highlight using research methodology to conduct EBP, fragmented work, a focus on ROI related to reimbursement and a lack of attention to major healthcare concerns, the following are important recommendations. First, all healthcare clinicians must recognize their professional responsibility to understand what EBP is; the seven steps in EBP, and how it is differentiated compared to QI, IS, and research. Second, faculty who are educating clinicians of the future need to ensure that they themselves are knowledgeable in EBQI, IS, EBP and research and teach them correctly. Third, healthcare organizations must ensure that clinicians are provided appropriate and adequate continuing education related to the four domains. The education provided must include standardized terminology to ensure that when the term EBP is used, everyone knows that a searchable question was written, a comprehensive literature search was completed, the external evidence was critically appraised and synthesized, and the compelling body of evidence led to the best practice recommendation(s) implemented, and outcomes were measured. Fourth, professional peer-reviewed journal editors should ensure that EBP work can be disseminated correctly, as they do for QI and research work. Currently, many peer-reviewed professional journals require elements only found in research or QI methodologies, and these formatting requirements make it challenging to disseminate high-quality EBP work accurately. Achieving these recommendations includes actively recruiting EBP experts to serve as journal reviewers who provide a standardized format for submitting EBP work. EBP experts at the Helene Fuld Health Trust National Institute for Evidence-based Practice in Nursing and Healthcare have recently published a dissemination guide that addresses all the key elements of EBP methodology (Dean et al., ) that could serve this purpose.
###  Linking evidence to action
  * This review supports that implementation of EBPs result in improved patient outcomes and healthcare return on investment.
  * Like research and QI, standardized EBP terminology and methodology exist and must be consistently applied by clinicians, academicians, publishers, and leaders.
  * Healthcare leaders must provide continuing education, time, and monetary support to clinicians for EBP work.
  * More EBP is needed on all important health issues, not just those based on reimbursement or accreditation.
  * ROI needs to be consistently measured and reported in EBP work.


##  CONCLUSION
Findings from this scoping review indicate that EBPs improve patient outcomes and yield a positive return on investment for hospitals and healthcare systems. Several areas should be addressed to accelerate the science of EBP and EBDM in healthcare. First, the incorrect use of EBP terminology and methodology must be addressed by healthcare leaders, clinicians, publishers, and educators. This requires all to understand what EBP is and how it differs from QI, IS and research. Healthcare leaders must provide continuing education, time, and monetary support to clinicians for EBP work, including the development of a critical mass of EBP mentors since findings from studies, indicate that this leads to the implementation of EBP by clinicians and improved outcomes for both themselves and their patients (Melnyk et al., , ). Individual clinicians have a professional, ethical responsibility to provide expert care in their discipline, which requires an evidence-based approach; publishers must provide a format that supports the dissemination of rigorous EBP work, and educators, whether in the academic or hospital setting, must become competent in EBP methodology to ensure clinicians are properly prepared to provide evidence-based care. Of note, the wide heterogeneity in approaches, designs, and outcomes measured in the articles reviewed would be challenging if a systematic review to determine practice recommendations was attempted, as syntheses would be very challenging to conduct. Fragmented EBP endeavors that do not build upon prior work limit the spread and advancement of EBPs. In addition, more evidence-based work is needed on all important health issues, not just those connected to reimbursement or accreditation. Finally, a key underpinning of EBP is reducing healthcare costs which was supported in this review. Although ROI was only measured in 19% of the articles, it is worth noting that when the ROI of EBP work was measured, ROI improved 94% of the time. Therefore, ROI must be consistently measured and reported in EBP work to demonstrate its cost value to healthcare systems.
##  Supporting Information
[wvn12621-sup-0001-EDITED_Supplement_References.docx](https://sigmapubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/action/downloadSupplement?doi=10.1111%2Fwvn.12621&file=wvn12621-sup-0001-EDITED_Supplement_References.docx)Word 2007 document , 144.3 KB |  **Supplement Materials**  
---|---  
Please note: The publisher is not responsible for the content or functionality of any supporting information supplied by the authors. Any queries (other than missing content) should be directed to the corresponding author for the article.
## 
REFERENCES
  * American Nurses Association. (2022). _Contributing to a quality patient experience: Applying evidence-based practice to support changes in nursing dress code policies_. <http://www.nursingworld.org/>
  * American Nurses Credentialing Center. (2022). _Practice model_. <http://www.nursecredentialing.org/Magnet.aspx>
  * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. (2021). _2021 National and state healthcare-associated infections progress report_. <https://www.cdc.gov/hai/data/portal/progress-report.html>
  * Dean, J., Gallagher-Ford, L., & Connor, L. (2021). Evidence-based practice: A new dissemination guide. _Worldviews on Evidence-Based Nursing_ , 18(1), 4–7. <https://doi.org/10.1111/wvn.12489>
10.1111/wvn.12489
  * Eccles, M. P., & Mittman, B. S. (2006). Welcome to implementation science. _Implementation Science_ , 1, 1–3. 
10.1186/1748-5908-1-1
  * Evidence-Based Medicine Working Group. (1992). Evidence-based medicine. A new approach to teaching the practice of medicine. _JAMA_ , 268(17), 2420–2425. <https://doi.org/10.1001/jama.1992.03490170092032>
10.1001/jama.1992.03490170092032
  * Freixas, N., Bella, F., Limón, E., Pujol, M., Almirante, B., & Gudiol, F. (2013). Impact of a multimodal intervention to reduce bloodstream infections related to vascular catheters in non-ICU wards: A multicenter study. _Clinical Microbiology and Infection_ , 19(9), 838–844. <https://doi.org/10.1111/1469-0691.12049>
10.1111/1469-0691.12049
  * Gallagher-Ford, L., & Melnyk, B. M. (2022). Evaluating outcomes of evidence-based practice initiatives versus research: Clarifying the confusion with a call to action. _Worldviews on Evidence-Based Nursing_ , 19(4), 258–259. <https://doi.org/10.1111/wvn.12604>
10.1111/wvn.12604
  * Grant, M. J., & Booth, A. (2009). A typology of reviews: An analysis of 14 review types and associated methodologies. _Health Information and Library Journal_ , 26(2), 91–108. <https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1471-1842.2009.00848.x>
10.1111/j.1471-1842.2009.00848.x
  * Institute of Medicine (US) Committee on Quality of Health Care in America. (2001). Crossing the quality chasm: A new health system for the 21st century. The National Academies Press. <https://doi.org/10.17226/10027>
  * Matoba, N., & Collins, J. W., Jr. (2017). Racial disparity in infant mortality. _Seminars in Perinatology_ , 41(6), 354–359. <https://doi.org/10.1053/j.semperi.2017.07.003>
10.1053/j.semperi.2017.07.003
  * McGowan, J., Straus, S., Moher, D., Langlois, E. V., O'Brien, K. K., Horsley, T., Aldcroft, A., Zarin, W., Garitty, C. M., Hempel, S., Lillie, E., Tunçalp, Ӧ., & Tricco, A. C. (2020). Reporting scoping reviews-PRISMA ScR extension. _Journal of Clinical Epidemiology_ , 123, 177–179. <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclinepi.2020.03.016>
10.1016/j.jclinepi.2020.03.016
  * Melnyk, B. M., Buck, J., & Gallagher-Ford, L. (2015). Transforming quality improvement into evidence-based quality improvement: A key solution to improve healthcare outcomes. _Worldviews on Evidence-Based Nursing_ , 12(5), 251–252. <https://doi.org/10.1111/wvn.12112>
10.1111/wvn.12112
  * Melnyk, B. M., & Fineout-Overholt, E. (2019). Evidence-based practice in nursing & healthcare: A guide to best practice ( 4th ed.). Lippincott Williams & Wilkins. 
  * Melnyk, B. M., Fineout-Overholt, E., Giggle, M., & Choy, K. (2017). A test of the ARCC© model improves implementation of evidence-based practice, healthcare culture, and patient outcomes. _Worldviews on Evidence-Based Nursing_ , 14(1), 5–9. <https://doi.org/10.1111/wvn.12189>
10.1111/wvn.12188
  * Melnyk, B. M., Tan, A., Hsieh, A. P., & Gallagher-Ford, L. (2021). Evidence-based practice culture and mentorship predict EBP implementation, nurse job satisfaction, and intent to stay: Support for the ARCC© model. _Worldviews on Evidence-Based Nursing_ , 18(4), 272–281. <https://doi.org/10.1111/wvn.12524>
10.1111/wvn.12524
  * National Academy of Medicine. (2022). _About the National Academy of Medicine_. <https://nam.edu/about-the-nam/>
  * Niles, N. W., Conley, S. M., Yang, R. C., Vanichakarn, P., Anderson, T. A., Butterly, J. R., Robb, J. F., Jayne, J. E., Yanofsky, N. N., Proehl, J. A., Guadagni, D. F., Brown, J. R., & Dartmouth-Hitchcock ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction Process Upgrade Project (STEPUP) Group. (2010). Primary percutaneous coronary intervention for patients presenting with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction: Process improvement in a rural ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction receiving center. _Progress in Cardiovascular Diseases_ , 53(3), 202–209. <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pcad.2010.08.004>
10.1016/j.pcad.2010.08.004
  * Sadler, B. L., Joseph, A., Keller, A., & Rostenberg, B. (2009). Using evidence-based environmental design to enhance safety and quality [White paper]. IHI Innovation Series white paper. Institute for Healthcare Improvement. [www.IHI.org](http://www.ihi.org)
  * Seddon, M. E., Hocking, C. J., Mead, P., & Simpson, C. (2011). Aiming for zero: Decreasing central line-associated bacteremia in the intensive care unit. _The New Zealand Medical Journal_ , 124(1339), 9–21. 
  * Short, K. L. (2019). Implementation of a central line maintenance bundle for dislodgement and infection prevention in the NICU. _Advances in Neonatal Care_ , 19(2), 145–150. <https://doi.org/10.1097/ANC.0000000000000566>
10.1097/ANC.0000000000000566
  * Tikkanen, R. (2020). Maternal mortality and maternity care in the United States compared to 10 other developed countries, Commonwealth Fund Issue Briefs. <https://www.commonwealthfund.org/publications/issue-briefs/2020/nov/maternal-mortality-maternity-care-us-compared-10-countries>
  * Tricco, A. C., Lillie, E., Zarin, W., O'Brien, K. K., Colquhoun, H., Levac, D., Moher, D., Peters, M., Horsley, T., Weeks, L., Hempel, S., Akl, E. A., Chang, C., McGowan, J., Stewart, L., Hartling, L., Aldcroft, A., Wilson, M. G., Garritty, C., … Straus, S. E. (2018). PRISMA extension for scoping reviews (PRISMA-ScR): Checklist and explanation. _Annals of Internal Medicine_ , 169(7), 467–473. <https://doi.org/10.7326/M18-0850>
10.7326/M18-0850
  * World Health Organization. (2022). _Aging and health_. [www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/ageing-and-health](http://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/ageing-and-health)


## 
Citing Literature
[Volume20, Issue1](https://sigmapubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/toc/17416787/2023/20/1 "View Volume 20, Issue 1")
February 2023
Pages 6-15
This article also appears in:
  * [Nurses Week 2024 Content Collection](https://sigmapubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/toc/10.1002/\(ISSN\)9999-0009.Nursing-2024-Collection)




## Request Username
Can't sign in? Forgot your username?
Enter your email address below and we will send you your username
If the address matches an existing account you will receive an email with instructions to retrieve your username
[ Picked up by **10** news outlets ](https://www.altmetric.com/details.php?domain=sigmapubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com&citation_id=142274768&tab=news)
[ Blogged by **1** ](https://www.altmetric.com/details.php?domain=sigmapubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com&citation_id=142274768&tab=blogs)
[ Posted by **30** X users ](https://www.altmetric.com/details.php?domain=sigmapubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com&citation_id=142274768&tab=twitter)
[ Reddited by **1** ](https://www.altmetric.com/details.php?domain=sigmapubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com&citation_id=142274768&tab=reddit)
[ Referenced by **1** Bluesky users ](https://www.altmetric.com/details.php?domain=sigmapubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com&citation_id=142274768&tab=bluesky)
**861** readers on Mendeley 
