• 6y ago
#  [Program Review] Barbell Medicine's Powerbuilding I template 
Hi all, 
I just finished up Barbell Medicine's Powerbuilding I template and thought I'd share my experience since there aren't many BBM program reviews in [r/weightroom](https://www.reddit.com/r/weightroom/). 
About me: Male, 24, 6’1”, ~205 lbs. Before this, I had four years of on and off fuckarounditis, then I ran about three months of Stronglifts, then six months of the Juggernaut Method. 
Powerbuilding I is a paid program, so I won’t go into too much detail, but it has three lifting days per week with three lifts per day plus some GPP work that can be done whenever you want (cardio, abs, and upper back). It lasts ten weeks, with the first five weeks being geared toward volume accumulation and the last five backing off slightly on assistance work and incorporating a heavy single at RPE 8 as the first set on each main lift. Main lifts are done in 6 rep sets, and assistance work ranges from 8-12 reps. (Afaik the strength/powerlifting templates stay around 3-8 reps and the hypertrophy templates range from 8-12). Weight is almost always determined by target RPE, though percentages are given as guidelines. 
I did my best to run the program as written. I did skip cardio on weeks when I got too busy (though I think I got about 80% of the workouts in), and I added in a few weekly sets of facepulls and lateral delt raises. I also swapped out the competition 1ct. pause bench for touch-n-go bench as I’m not interested in competing in a meet any time soon. 
I tracked my diet using Cronometer and averaged 170 grams of protein per day. I tried to maintain a moderate calorie surplus, but I stayed between 200 and 210 lbs the entire time - I clearly need to be more deliberate about bulking and to calculate my TDEE more carefully. I did my best to maintain good sleep habits and limit stress, but I started a new job around week 6 and the extra stress and new schedule hampered my recovery for a couple weeks. 
Results: **OHP: 130 - > 140** (110x7 -> 140x1); **Bench: 225 - > 240** (190x7 -> 240x1) **Squat: 300 - >345** (240x8 -> 345x1); **Deadlift 350 - > 415** (280x8 -> 415x1) [Videos](https://www.instagram.com/p/B4GLMxFHMyb/?utm_source=ig_web_copy_link)
I’m really happy with my progress in all of these lifts, especially the squat which had seemed to be stagnating through the entire program. I don’t have good before/after photos, but I seem to have gained some muscle as well, especially quads, arms, and shoulders. 
**Things I liked:**
- The exercise selection was great – I felt like the work was balanced across my whole body, with a slight emphasis on the upper body and shoulders. There was some nice flexibility in choosing assistance exercises – in most cases, one option was more powerlifting-specific and the other more GPP focused (like paused squats vs. front squats). I usually went with the less specific option. Finally, everything in the program could be done in my minimally-equipped YMCA gym. 
- I like the way conditioning was programmed. Doing x-minute AMRAP sets for abs and upper back is a nice way to get lots of work in without a large time commitment. The steady state and HIIT work were pretty basic, but all in all I feel like my work capacity improved. 
- Even though I have some gripes about how it was used (see below), learning how to use RPE was worthwhile. I learned a lot about how I handle stress and paid more attention to things like form and bar speed. Whether or not I stick with this style of programming in the future, this template made me a better lifter. 
**Things I didn’t like:**
- I don’t think this method of using RPE (fixed reps with RPE guiding weight selection) is good for beginner lifters. Nowhere in the program are we given the chance to calibrate by taking sets to failure, making it tough to dial in. I would have had a much harder time if I hadn’t done amrap sets in the Juggernaut Method. 
- By the last half of the program, I was spending up to 2.5 hours at a time in the gym. The guidelines say to rest 3-5 minutes between sets, and that time adds up quite a bit, especially if you try to do GPP work in the same day. If I were to run it again, I would do more supersets. 
- This is a minor gripe, but the program materials don’t do much to clarify why the program is set up the way it is. I was hoping that running this program would teach me more about RPE-based training, but I learned more from outside resources like RTS YouTube videos than from anything that came with this program. 
**General thoughts:**
- My estimated 1rms mostly stagnated during this program (except on the deadlift). However, when I tested my maxes after less than a week of rest, I blew past not just my old PRs but also all my most recent e1rms. Running this was a lesson in not getting too hung up on superficial indicators of progress. 
- RPE-based programs are hard to review because so much depends on how they are implemented. I underestimated the amount of mental attention and discipline required when compared with a percentage-based program - a failing on my part and not the program’s - but for the purposes of this review I think it’s worth noting that RPE training may not be as ideal for novice/casual/hobbyist/time-limited lifters as the BBM program descriptions might make it seem. 
- There’s not a lot of variation across the 10 weeks. If you get bored easily or just like novelty in your training, this program could feel like a grind. 
- The biggest problem with this program is the $55 price tag. It’s not that it is in any way bad (I got great results from it), just that even a great cookie-cutter program probably isn’t worth what they’re charging. If you are interested in this style of training, I’d say your money is better spent on something like the RTS online classrooms where you’d learn how to write a custom micro- and meso-cycles for yourself. Maybe this is hubris talking, but I suspect that just by going over the [free](https://liftvault.com/programs/strength/bridge-program-spreadsheet/) [programs](https://liftvault.com/programs/powerlifting/alan-thrall-program-spreadsheet-untamed-method/) BBM has put out and studying RTS lectures on YouTube you could probably reverse-engineer a comparable program. 
**TL;DR:** Overall a great program, added 135 lbs to my total, but expensive for a cookie-cutter program and requires a lot of attention, time, and mental effort to implement properly. 
Read more 
Share 
• [ 6y ago ](https://www.reddit.com/r/weightroom/comments/dnpf1p/comment/f5e0zt9/)
Nice write-up. I'm a big fan of BBM. I've not tried the powerbuilding template but I've done the 3-Day Hypertrophy and 12 Week Strength Training programs. I've had a lot of success with them (or at least I've had consistent progress, I can't claim I know for a fact that I wouldn't have had greater progress with a different program, but I've never felt like my progress has been bottle-necked by the program). 
RPE definitely takes some getting used to but IMO once you do it makes a lot more sense than a strict percentage-based training. 
I do agree that the price for their templates are higher than I would normally pay (I got mine during a sale) but I justified it to myself by looking at it as a way of not just paying for a program but paying for all the articles, videos, and podcasts they put out. As far as I can tell there's hardly anyone out there who comes close to the quality of research and theory that they use (their pain-science stuff completely reversed the way I approach injury). But I would say that if anyone is iffy on buying a $50 program from them they should check out the Bridge, which is a free program from them that gives a pretty good idea of their training philosophy and how they use RPE. Or just check out their videos and articles, they explain their training philosophy in depth in those. 
> Maybe this is hubris talking, but I suspect that just by going over the [free](https://liftvault.com/programs/strength/bridge-program-spreadsheet/) [programs](https://liftvault.com/programs/powerlifting/alan-thrall-program-spreadsheet-untamed-method/) BBM has put out and studying RTS lectures on YouTube you could probably reverse-engineer a comparable program. 
Not only do I not think it's hubris, I think they would completely agree with you. I think their intention is to give people enough information to figure out programing for themselves, and the programs they offer are simply there for anyone who wants them, not them saying "This is the only way you can train like us." 
• [ 6y ago ](https://www.reddit.com/r/weightroom/comments/dnpf1p/comment/f6j3qwa/)
Thanks for putting the time in to write this up. So Austin Baraki (he's like the #2 guy at BBM) has been the biggest influence on me for my weight training journey so far. Back a year or so ago when BBM separated from Starting Strength they had a feud with them about intermediate programming among other things. Austin made some posts on social media about his and BBM's philosophy and reasoning for why they do programming the way that they do and was addressing a lot of the general misunderstandings out there, and I wanted to copypasta it here. It's helped me a ton in terms of general guidance when I do my own programming. So here it is... 
  1. The evidence shows that strongest predictor of force production capacity is the amount of muscle mass someone carries -- and this becomes even more true once basic neurological adaptations (e.g., skill and neuromuscular recruitment) have taken place. In other words, in post-novice trainees, the amount of muscle you have seems to make the biggest difference in how strong you are. 
  2. The neurological adaptations necessary to lift relatively heavy weights are best developed by handling relatively heavy weights (in other words, you MUST handle heavy weights to improve and demonstrate top-end force production using the muscle mass you already have). No one is arguing that at all, and the evidence is clear here. 
  3. Increases in muscle mass result from the process of muscular hypertrophy. The evidence unequivocally demonstrates the role of training volume as the primary driver of muscular hypertrophy, with data showing an incremental benefit to each additional set performed per week. Additionally (and very interestingly), there is also evidence showing that anabolic signaling progressively increases as you increase intensity from 20% 1RM to around 60%-70% … but above that, you don’t seem to get any higher anabolic signaling by using heavier weights. This helps to explain why you can get the SAME hypertrophic outcomes using weights ranging from 30% 1RM to 90% 1RM. (And has all been measured _myofibrillar_ hypertrophy. The idea that using different intensities give you different proportions of sarcoplasmic vs. myofibrillar hypertrophy is bullshit.) 
  4. So, once we have someone who has developed the basic skills to perform the lifts, and has developed some of the necessary neurological adaptations in terms of neuromuscular recruitment (for our purposes, say, once they’ve finished the novice program), we need to get them MORE JACKED. This means that training volume per unit time MUST increase, _for everyone_ (… which, of course, requires a reduction in average intensity). Note that doing the opposite — reducing training volume, increasing training intensity, and eating more — is an _incredibly_ stupid way to train for gaining muscle mass (unless you’re artificially sensitized to training by being on tons of drugs, in which case you can do anything, like one heavy set per week, and make progress). 
  5. We have evidence showing that older trainees generate a lower anabolic response to training compared to younger trainees at low training volumes. However, we also have data showing that increasing this training volume for older trainees increases (and nearly normalizes) their anabolic response. This is the exact same phenomenon we see with protein intake. Similarly, there is evidence that anabolic signaling decreases the more “trained” you become (you effectively become desensitized to anabolic stimuli, i.e. more training resistant), and therefore need MORE TRAINING the more advanced you get. Duh. 
  6. It is true that an untrained older person is more likely to have a poorer recovery capacity than a younger person … though untrained people in general have poor recovery capacities. Fortunately, training with more volume and more frequency 1) improves your recovery capacity (evidenced by, among _many_ other things, the rate of MPS after training), and 2) stimulates the Repeated Bout Effect, which protects you from the effects of muscle damage and DOMS … meaning you don’t get as sore — unless, of course, you’ve been told that as soon as you turn 35 years old you become crippled, unable to recover from anything because your testosterone is in the low-normal range. (In fact, we have evidence that fear-avoidance and catastrophizing behavior worsen the perceived severity of DOMS after training … and I’ll be talking more about this soon). 
  7. SO, the bottom line: Waiting as long as humanly possible before increasing someone’s training volume and frequency (or, _decreasing_ it) means you are also 1) Waiting as long as humanly possible to develop the necessary work capacity to 2) TOLERATE the amount of training necessary, in order to 3) Stimulate enough anabolism and therefore gain enough muscle, in order to 4) Keep increasing long-term strength potential. On top of this, constantly TELLING people they can’t recover from doing an extra set and REMINDING them of how sore and achy they’ll get, further compromises this entire process from a psychological standpoint. 


• [ 6y ago ](https://www.reddit.com/r/weightroom/comments/dnpf1p/comment/f5dv168/)
Three things I think are the most important takeaways here: 
  1. $55 for a beginner program (with nothing that sounds revolutionary) is crazy. 
  2. Trying to have beginners judge their own ability is asking for terrible regulation. Form inconsistencies at a low level seem to me like a way of throwing rpe way out of whack 
  3. e1rms are sometimes really misleading. I know personally my body responds way better under low volume heavy weights than it does under volume, which is why I always take estimates with a serious grain of salt 


Nice results, though! Glad you made the best of a program that seemed to be lacking in a few ways 
• [ 6y ago ](https://www.reddit.com/r/weightroom/comments/dnpf1p/comment/f5dz445/)
Agree, that it is pricey. However, why do you call it a beginner program? 
• [ 6y ago ](https://www.reddit.com/r/weightroom/comments/dnpf1p/comment/f5dznnf/)
Yeah, that was kinda a mistake on my part. It's been a long day and looking at the author's training history I just assumed it was a low-intermediate deal. If not, I'm sure that'd be a whole different problem of over complicating programming 
9 more replies 
9 more replies 
[ Continue this thread  ](https://www.reddit.com/r/weightroom/comments/dnpf1p/comment/f5dznnf/?force-legacy-sct=1) [ Continue this thread  ](https://www.reddit.com/r/weightroom/comments/dnpf1p/comment/f5dz445/?force-legacy-sct=1)
• [ 6y ago ](https://www.reddit.com/r/weightroom/comments/dnpf1p/comment/f5fngna/)
You second point was a big source of frustration and something I should have mentioned - there is a wide grey area between "reps remaining with good form" and "reps remaining" and it's hard to know where to land between them. With that said, I think I benefited from being forced to think about it regularly. 
• [ 6y ago ](https://www.reddit.com/r/weightroom/comments/dnpf1p/comment/f5g6lqp/)
Exactly, even today lifting alone after a few years I find myself struggling to tell if a rep is grindy because of fatigue or because my form is giving 
1 more reply 
1 more reply 
[ Continue this thread  ](https://www.reddit.com/r/weightroom/comments/dnpf1p/comment/f5g6lqp/?force-legacy-sct=1) [ Continue this thread  ](https://www.reddit.com/r/weightroom/comments/dnpf1p/comment/f5fngna/?force-legacy-sct=1)
• [ 6y ago ](https://www.reddit.com/r/weightroom/comments/dnpf1p/comment/f5h5wt2/)
> e1rms are sometimes really misleading. I know personally my body responds way better under low volume heavy weights than it does under volume, which is why I always take estimates with a serious grain of salt 
I agree with this, but do think they can at least be a metric to gauge progress. 
For me, I decided a while back that I just "don't care" about true 1RM strength. But, looking at an e1RM based on a 3-10RM is an extra data point. It's probably not accurate -- but if I gain 10lb on a 3RM over a few training blocks that's going to equate to a gain on a e1RM as well, and is therefore _some_ indication of progress. 
Obviously the increase to the 3RM is an indication of progress as well ... so maybe it just doesn't matter. 
It's just more data. I guess that's my point. 
• [ 6y ago ](https://www.reddit.com/r/weightroom/comments/dnpf1p/comment/f5h6gy0/)
Yeah, I agree with that. I'm referring to people who take e1rms as actual numbers and not general indicators 
2 more replies 
2 more replies 
[ Continue this thread  ](https://www.reddit.com/r/weightroom/comments/dnpf1p/comment/f5h6gy0/?force-legacy-sct=1) [ Continue this thread  ](https://www.reddit.com/r/weightroom/comments/dnpf1p/comment/f5h5wt2/?force-legacy-sct=1) [ Continue this thread  ](https://www.reddit.com/r/weightroom/comments/dnpf1p/comment/f5dv168/?force-legacy-sct=1)
• [ 6y ago ](https://www.reddit.com/r/weightroom/comments/dnpf1p/comment/f5fb26x/)
Good write up. I finished running the Powerbuilding II program about four weeks ago, and also derived pretty good results from it. 1RMs went up a bit, but I also put on enough lean body mass to be noticable. Agreed that autoregulation-based training has a bit of a learning curve, but so does most everything. If you have an e1RM, you can just use the included calculator to slot a percentage weight in if you'd prefer. 
As to whether the template is expensive, I'd say that it's pretty much comparable with other similar paid products out there. Bear in mind that the RTS classroom is going to set you back $100/month. And now you have this template, you can tweak it to your own preferences forever (e.g. it would be straightforward to make it into a 4-day/week program). 
• [ 6y ago ](https://www.reddit.com/r/weightroom/comments/dnpf1p/comment/f5ibvtv/)
Good job man! I will say the squat looked a bit high if you're looking at doing some powerlifting in the future. 
You might give your spotter a new squat cue - "all right big breath!" on the descent and then "let it all out!" in the bottom of the hole would mess me up a lot haha. It sounds like his telling you to exhale, which is the opposite of what you want to do. 
"DRIVE!" is rarely wrong on any lift, for instance. 
• [ 6y ago ](https://www.reddit.com/r/weightroom/comments/dnpf1p/comment/f5jm6ao/)
Thanks! I was honestly ignoring him completely lmao - but yeah I definitely am above parallel. I'm about to run a cycle of Greg Nuckols' 28 programs 1x/week squat with a low training max to practice hitting depth and just work on dialing in my form all around. I set having a 1000 lb total as my goal a year ago and in my eagerness to get there I cut a few corners form-wise. Now that I'm there my next objective is to tighten up form and work on conditioning before I try to push my total any higher. 
• [ 6y ago ](https://www.reddit.com/r/weightroom/comments/dnpf1p/comment/f5jofdr/)
I love those 28 free programs. Have hit some of my best PRs running his programming. 
Running the 3x intermediate bench currently and it has been PR city for the last couple months. Though part of that might be my neglecting bench for the last 3 years or so. Got up to a 205 strict press and 245 is my current 1rm PR lol. (Testing it tomorrow though and hoping for 255 or 260!) 
1 more reply 
1 more reply 
[ Continue this thread  ](https://www.reddit.com/r/weightroom/comments/dnpf1p/comment/f5jofdr/?force-legacy-sct=1) [ Continue this thread  ](https://www.reddit.com/r/weightroom/comments/dnpf1p/comment/f5jm6ao/?force-legacy-sct=1) [ Continue this thread  ](https://www.reddit.com/r/weightroom/comments/dnpf1p/comment/f5ibvtv/?force-legacy-sct=1)
• [ 6y ago ](https://www.reddit.com/r/weightroom/comments/dnpf1p/comment/f5dyuaq/)
I rested 3 minutes between work sets on PB1 and none of my sessions ran longer than 1.5 hours. If I added GPP at the end it would run a little longer, but I usually myo-repped them which meant a total of 3 minutes on an exercise max. 
[deleted]
• [ 6y ago ](https://www.reddit.com/r/weightroom/comments/dnpf1p/comment/f5gbv0s/)
Thanks for this! I ran the Bridge + Novice Peak for my meet and enjoyed it. I was trying to decide between Hypertrophy and Powerbuilding and ended up choosing Hypertrophy for now. It was tough to spend the $50 without knowing exactly what the program is but BBM stuff is solid. 
## 
View Post in 
##  Top Posts 
  * [ Reddit  reReddit: Top posts of October 27, 2019 ](https://www.reddit.com/posts/2019/october-27-1/global/)
  * [ Reddit  reReddit: Top posts of October 2019 ](https://www.reddit.com/posts/2019/october/global/)
  * [ Reddit  reReddit: Top posts of 2019 ](https://www.reddit.com/posts/2019/global/)


[Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved.](https://redditinc.com)
