  * Apple's new AI model outperforms GPT-4


# Apple's new AI model outperforms GPT-4
PLUS: OpenAI adds image editing
Apr 2, 2024
| 
### Welcome, AI enthusiasts.
Apple researchers just revealed a new AI model that can ‘see’ and understand screen context — and they say it can ‘substantially outperform‘ GPT-4 on benchmarks.
If research papers are any indications of future launches, we’re gearing up for a wild ride at Apple WWDC 2024. Let’s get into it.
**In today’s AI rundown:**
  * **Apple’s ReALM ‘outperforms‘ GPT-4**
  * **OpenAI adds image editing to DALL-E 3**
  * **Generate green screen product mockups with AI**
  * **6 new AI tools & 4 new AI jobs**
  * **More AI & tech news**


_Read time: 3 minutes_
**LATEST DEVELOPMENTS**
###### APPLE
####  🍎** _[Apple’s ReALM ‘outperforms‘ GPT-4](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2403.20329.pdf)_**
**The Rundown:** In a new research paper,Apple researchers introduced , a new AI system that can understand on-screen tasks, conversational context, and background processes.
**The details:**
  * ReALM uses a new approach of converting screen info to text — allowing it to bypass bulky image recognition parameters for more efficient on-device AI.
  * The model takes into account both what's on the user's screen and what tasks are active.
  * According to the paper, Apple's larger ReALM models substantially outperformed GPT-4, despite having fewer parameters.


**Example use case:** If scrolling through a website and you want to call a business, a user could tell Siri to “call the business“, and Siri would be able to “see“ the phone number on the website and call it directly.
**Why it matters:** ReALM is a big step forward in making voice assistants more context-aware. By understanding on-screen info and additional context, the next Siri update could provide a more seamless and hands-free user experience.
###### SPONSORED BY MASTERWORKS
####  💰 
**The Rundown:** You’ve probably heard the Masterworks pitch. Ya know, the platform where you can invest in shares of blue-chip art like Banksy and Basquiat. But how can you know it's legit?
**Here are the facts:**
  * All investable offerings are SEC-qualified
  * Over $55 million total proceeds distributed back to investors
  * Median returns of 14.6%, 16.4%, and 17.6%, among their 21 exits


to unlock VIP access to limited-time offerings.
**Sponsor disclosure:** Past performance is not indicative of future returns. Investing involves risk. See Important disclosures at [www.masterworks.com/cd](http://www.masterworks.com/cd)
###### OPENAI DALL-E
####  🌅[OpenAI adds image editing to DALL-E 3](https://help.openai.com/en/articles/9055440-editing-your-images-with-dall-e)
**The Rundown:** OpenAI has  a new feature that allows users to edit images generated by DALL-E 3 directly within ChatGPT, providing a more streamlined way to customize AI-generated images.
**The details:**
  * The DALL-E editor enables users to select specific areas of an image and prompt changes.
  * Users can add, remove, or modify objects and characteristics within a selected region of an AI-generated image.
  * The editor is accessible via the web interface and the ChatGPT mobile app, with slight variations in the editing process between platforms.


**Why it matters:** Integrating image editing capabilities directly into DALL-E 3 is a big step forward in expanding the image-generation possibilities using ChatGPT. However, with Midjourney having similar features for a while, it looks like OpenAI is finally the one playing catch-up. 
###### AI TRAINING
####  ✅[Generate green screen product mockups with AI](https://join.therundown.ai/)
**The Rundown:** This Midjourney or DALL-E 3 prompt can create stunningly realistic computer, phone, or product mockups, complete with a green screen to customize for your business or product easily.
**Step-by-step:**
  1. Open  and type /imagine.
  2. Prompt to generate an image of someone holding/using a device in front of a solid green background. For example: “Over the shoulder shot of a person in front of an entirely <color> computer screen”
  3. Customize and tweak the prompt as necessary to get the image just right — then export and open in an editing app (Photoshop, Canva, etc.) to replace the colored screen background with your own imagery.
  4. Note — be mindful of reflections, such as green screens bleeding into other aspects of the image.


[Get more AI tutorials →](https://university.therundown.ai/checkout/access)
**NEW TOOLS & JOBS**
### 
  * 🐰- Automated code review tool with contextual feedback
  * 🖼️ - Optimize your website images with generative A/B testing
  * 📊- AI Agents for personalized investment insights
  * 🗃️ - Create, review, track, sign, and analyze contracts
  * 🎨- Transforms doodles into AI-generated art
  * 👩‍💻- Customer service automation with AI technology


[Browse more AI tools →](https://supertools.therundown.ai/)
### [**New AI Job Opportunities**](https://jobs.therundown.ai/)
  * 💰  - Pricing Lead
  * 💻  - Staff Backend Engineer
  * 🧾 - Billing Operations Manager
  * 🛡️  - Principal Software Engineer, Architecture and Integration


[Browse more AI jobs →](https://jobs.therundown.ai/)
**QUICK HITS**
**OpenAI** is  a new ChatGPT feature that allows new users to start using ChatGPT instantly without needing to sign up.
**Google for Developers** sent an  to all Gemini API Developers that they will update their terms of service to pay-as-you-go pricing for the Gemini API starting May 2nd.
**Stanford Medicine** researchers devise , a new AI model that develops potential new drugs for antibiotic-resistant bacteria.
**Samsung** is  its voice assistant Bixby with generative AI to enable more natural conversation and support across its ecosystem of products.
**Perplexity** plans to start  native ads in the form of brand-influenced related questions.
**Google AI** just introduced , an open-source machine learning framework that combines the interpretability of traditional Bayesian approaches with the scalability of neural networks.
**MultiOn** released its  in public beta, allowing developers to embed AI agents in applications to automate tasks and workflows on the web.
**THAT’S A WRAP**
###### SPONSOR US
#### **Get your product in front of over 500k+ AI enthusiasts**
Our newsletter is read by thousands of tech professionals, investors, engineers, managers, and business owners around the world. 
###### FEEDBACK
### How would you rate today's newsletter?
Vote below to help us improve the newsletter for you.
  * [⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ Nailed it](https://www.therundown.ai/login)


or to participate
If you have specific feedback or anything interesting you’d like to share, please let us know by **replying to this email.**
### Keep Reading
View more
caret-right
Get the latest AI news, understand why it matters, and learn how to apply it in your work. Join 2,000,000+ readers from companies like Apple, OpenAI, NASA.
Stay Updated
Articles
AI University
Company
© 2026 The Rundown AI, Inc. All rights reserved.
Get the latest AI news, understand why it matters, and learn how to apply it in your work. Join 2,000,000+ readers from companies like Apple, OpenAI, NASA.
Stay Updated
Articles
AI University
Company
© 2026 The Rundown AI, Inc. All rights reserved.
