[Skip to Content](https://www.menshealth.com/uk/fitness/g46101487/health-and-fitness-trends-predictions/#main-content)
We earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article.
ERIC_WITTKOPF
However your fitness went in 2023, the slate is about to be wiped clean: new year, new you and all that. But how will you use the opportunity for change the new year affords? What will your training look like? How will you optimise your health, and can you have wellness without woo woo in 2024? To give you some idea about how the next year is likely to shape up, we've assembled a squad of esteemed experts who have the inside scoop on the world of health and fitness in 2024.
## Our Expert Panel
  * Olivia Houghton – Health and wellness lead at strategic foresight consultancy The Future Laboratory.
  * Anthony Katz – Founder and president of Hyperice.
  * Chris Ashenden – CEO and founder of Athletic Greens.
  * Kate Burton-Barlow – Founder of brand strategists Fittest PR.
  * Beth McGroarty – VP of research at the Global Wellness Institute (GWI).
  * Clive Ormerod – CEO of Les Mills International.
  * Andrew Tracey – PT, nutritionist and an editor at _Men’s Health._


1
## You’ll Bend, But Not Break
The [WFH revolution](https://www.menshealth.com/uk/building-muscle/a40142492/press-up-variations/) has its benefits, but thanks to our increasingly sedentary lifestyles, our bodies are feeling the strain. Fed up with stiff hips and back pain derailing our efforts in the gym, we’ll start recognising the effects of poor posture on our ability to move well. According to Fiit’s Ian McCaig, so-called ‘recovery for performance’ is skyrocketing among everyday exercisers, with 34% of its members tackling mobility sequences. Online workout platform Les Mills+ has also seen a 55% increase in mobility sessions. With apps such as [Pliability](https://pliability.com/targets/brand?utm_source=googlecpc&utm_medium=searchcpc&utm_campaign=1378783866&utm_content=136152802050&utm_term=pliability&gad_source=1&gclid=Cj0KCQiAyeWrBhDDARIsAGP1mWSKpysvMflCr108F2wxpM4ENtkc8fBAnyrG_KAf-F5GAG6pw0a7p8UaAhXbEALw_wcB) expanding to support running and weightlifting, and gyms adding stretching-specific classes to their timetables, mobility is due a new moment.
2
## You’ll Sweat While You Shop
Taking the concept of shopping as a sport to the next level, sportswear and athleisure brands launching part-retail-store part-fitness-studio sites are on the rise. Gymshark now has a team of coaches working at its store on London’s Regent Street, while Under Armour’s latest UK shop houses a performance centre for shoppers to undertake next-level coaching and physiological assessments. With Alo Yoga bringing its stores-cum-yoga studios to the UK next year, and Nike debuting US-based boutique fitness spaces that will sell its merch, try before you buy is about to take on a new meaning.
Advertisement - Continue Reading Below
3
## You’ll Take a High-performance Holiday
[Surveys](https://www.pkfhospitality.com/news/articles-publications/the-world-of-wellness-and-wellbeing-in-the-hospitality-industry/) suggest 43% of us would choose a hotel based on its wellness amenities, while 73% expect our time abroad to improve our wellbeing – and not just for as long as the Paloma buzz lasts. But when it comes to healthy holidays, beach massages are basic fodder. Six Senses Ibiza’s new ‘longevity bar’ offers diagnostic testing and biohacking treatments, notes The Future Lab’s Olivia Houghton, while at Siro in Dubai, 3D body scanning and infrared therapy are available. With Equinox Hotels debuting in Saudi Arabia, and fitness trainer Harry Jameson’s hospitality concept Pillar Wellbeing collabing with luxury hotels, forget the fly’n’flop – your next trip will be performance-driven.
4
## You’ll Work For #BrainGains
Adding another step to your self-care routine, in 2024 our shelves will be increasingly stacked with pills and potions designed to boost our brains. Heights, which makes smart supplements that purport to enhance cognition, has been endorsed by everyone from endurance coach Chris Taylor to entrepreneur [Steven Bartlett](https://www.menshealth.com/uk/mental-strength/a44807379/steven-bartlett-investing-tips/), while this year functional beverage brand Trip has seen sales of its nootropic-infused drinks and CBD spike by over 500%. With hi-tech devices such as Wave Neuro and Sens.ai claiming to enable the quantification and enhancement of brain function at home (the latter just launched in the UK), we could soon see training programmes that are aimed at reshaping brainwaves, not just bodies.
Advertisement - Continue Reading Below
5
## You’ll Drink In Highs, Not Hangovers
Now that we’re no longer forced to quench our thirst with Beck’s Blue or lime soda, the latest evolution of the no- and low-alcohol boom will see non-drinkers sipping on zero-proof spirits delivering a better-for-you buzz. Packed with nootropics and adaptogens that claim to boost mood and focus, much-hyped US drinks brand Three Spirit has recently landed in the UK. Meanwhile, London’s new booze-free beverage store Club Soda stocks everything from non-alcoholic spirits such as Sentia – featuring GABA, a chemical that targets the brain receptors responsible for sociability – to mildly caffeinated social elixirs evoking the same euphoria as that first cocktail. ‘Whether plant-based or lab-made, there’s a growing desire for alcohol alternatives delivering feelings of emotional and social openness,’ says the GWI’s Beth McGroarty.
6
## Pilates Will Stretch In New Directions
Pilates is back in vogue. And with a number of male athletes and A-listers advertising its benefits (see: Harry Styles’s abs), this time its fan base isn’t just female. From mat to machine, sculpting classes (a subset of [Pilates](https://www.menshealth.com/uk/building-muscle/a38287598/chris-liam-hemsworth-pilates-workout-centr/), yoga and strength training) were the fastest-growing workout segment in 2022, per ClassPass. Similarly, Les Mills has seen a 63% rise in Gen Z members attending reformer Pilates classes, and in response, it’s rolling out additional Pilates-based workouts. For at-home exercisers, fitness studio Heartcore is launching a connected version of its Coreformer (a souped-up reformer bed), while Aussie import Strong Pilates (a part-Pilates, part-rowing concept) gives the benefits of a good stretch alongside the endorphins. Still not sold? Search for #RealMenDoPilates on Instagram.
Advertisement - Continue Reading Below
7
## Living Well Will Trump Living Longer
Self-injecting the blood of your offspring to reverse ageing is a step too far for most men, but thankfully there are simpler approaches. ‘Emerging longevity developments are looking beyond age-hacking to focus on extending quality of living,’ says Houghton. We’ll begin to see a focus on behaviours to future-proof health, says Chris Ashenden from Athletic Greens, whose supplements support daily health. Hyperbaric oxygen therapy, IV drips and home- testing kits sell themselves as an accessible way to optimise your healthspan. ‘Longevity has become the new pillar in wellness,’ says McGroarty. Not sure where to start? Peter Attia’s bestselling book _Outlive_ is a no-BS guide to the basics.
8
## Your Count Will, Erm, Count
‘Just as we’ve seen with women, men too will become motivated to address fertility issues,’ says Houghton. ExSeed lets men test sperm volume and improve fertility via their smartphone, while Tesco shoppers can pick up Newfoundland’s affordable self-test kits. ‘The societal emphasis on a woman’s role as a caregiver and parent has created an imbalance in how we think about fertility,’ claims DIY testing brand Legacy – with sperm counts worldwide halving over the past 50 years, it’s about time men entered the conversation.
Advertisement - Continue Reading Below
9
## You’ll Hybridise Your Training
Typically separated into two camps – strength or endurance – the lines between training styles are blurring, says Fittest PR’s Kate Burton-Barlow. Pioneered by athletes such as Fergus Crawley and Nick Bare – both of whom can deadlift 500lbs and run a sub 5-minute mile on the same day – the approach is gaining momentum. Fitness race organiser Hyrox hosts hybrid classes at Third Space, The Gym Group and others, while apparel brands such as Rad are launching cross-training shoes. Beyond the hype, swapping specialism for generalism supports day-to-day health and injury prevention. Why choose one when you can do both?
10
## Home Recovery Will Rule
No longer limited to elite locker rooms, contrast therapy (a cold plunge session followed by a sauna), pneumatic compression and hyperbaric chambers are becoming more accessible, says Hyperice’s Anthony Katz, whose [Normatec recovery boots](https://go.redirectingat.com/?id=127X583549&url=https%3A%2F%2Fhyperice.com%2Fen-GB%2Fproducts%2Fnormatec-3-legs%2F&xs=1&xcust=) revive muscles while you just sit and scroll. [Kineon’s laser therapy device](https://go.redirectingat.com/?id=127X583549&url=https%3A%2F%2Fkineon.io%2Fen-gb&xs=1&xcust=) is designed to reduce pain and stimulate healing, while bringing the benefits of recovery home, says Burton-Barlow. Up next, wellness club Remedy Place has plans to install full-blown recovery rooms in the homes of the performance-obsessed – for whom an ice barrel in the garden won’t cut it. No space in your studio flat? Visit Third Space, Equinox or BXR for cryotherapy, compression sleeves and more.
Advertisement - Continue Reading Below
11
## You’ll Play Games With Your Health
The gamification of fitness will go mainstream, predicts Clive Ormerod, as he points to Les Mills’ bestselling Bodycombat VR app for proof. Getting in on the action, Peloton recently launched Lanebreak, a music-based experience featuring challenges for points, while Zwift’s new handlebar-mounted controllers allow riders to better navigate its debut game. Inspiring the exercise-shy to get active – or as _MH_ ’s Tracey suggests, giving amateur athletes a dopamine hit from topping scoreboards – games such as Quell’s Shardfall (where users fight their way through fantasy worlds) are injecting some fun into shaping up. With tech giants Meta and Apple also entering the arena, the games should well and truly begin in 2024.
12
## You’ll Make Friends With Benefits
Subverting masculinist stereotypes such as working out purely to get ripped and suppressing difficult emotions, 2024 will see the emergence of more spaces in which men can connect, talk and unlock a slightly healthier mindset, suggests McGroarty. Combating a harmful ‘friendship recession’, the rise of fun run clubs such as Your Friendly Runners enables individuals to be part of a tribe, says Burton-Barlow, while McGroarty highlights [Rewilding’s Surf Retreats](https://www.rewildingsurfretreats.com/) as an example of an initiative offering men a space to foster friendships, anchored by outdoor activities. With a crop of wellness-focused social clubs also welcoming men wanting to hang out and share experiences while boosting their health, embracing time with the boys might become your healthiest habit yet.
Advertisement - Continue Reading Below
13
## Endurance Events Will Charge Forwards
In his book _Born To Run,_ Christopher McDougall suggests that times of uncertainty create a spike in endurance running. Amid multiple crises, it’s then perhaps no surprise that the popularity of endurance sports appears to be increasing in leaps and bounds. Record-breaking endurance athletes including Tom Evans and Kílian Jornet are leading the revolution. But amateurs are also lacing up for the limit-testing feats that have become _the_ new fitness flex. New events such as British Triathlon’s Swim Bike Run are increasing accessibility, while fitness influencers such as Leon Bustin, who’ve swapped the CrossFit box for ultrarunning, are helping everyday athletes prepare for the challenge. 
14
## Wearables Will Work Even Harder
Steps, sleep, stress… If you thought your wrist- worn trackers were already watching hard enough, think again. Expanding its metrics, Whoop now measures the effect weightlifting has on your body, while Nix’s sweat patches evaluate your fluid and electrolyte losses in real time. Integration between devices is also expanding, suggests Fiit’s McCaig. Tracking performance irrespective of location or equipment, the latest version of Fiit’s wearable chest strap pulls metrics from connected kit brands such as Concept2, Assault Fitness and Keiser through to its app. And as therapy and coaching features add another dimension to your devices – from Oura’s partnership with teletherapy company Talkspace to Whoop Coach (the first AI health and fitness coach in a wearable) – your tech’s about to get even smarter.
Advertisement - Continue Reading Below
15
## You’ll Age Actively
Reminding all of us that growing older doesn’t have to mean slowing down, UK chain PureGym recently hosted a fitness competition exclusively for the over-50s. The move mirrored a shift that’s seeing ageing demographics challenge notions of how their twilight years should be spent, says Tracey. Spurred on by super-fit seniors such as CrossFit’s Clarke Holland, and increased awareness of the importance of staying strong and mobile into older age, Sport England estimates there are 1.3 million more active 55- to 74-year-olds compared with six years ago. With gyms including the YMCA offering classes for older adults, Hyrox including an 85-to-89 age bracket and Apple Fitness+ launching slick workouts for seniors, ageing actively is becoming the new ageing gracefully.
16
## Experiences Will Be Your New Rx
Gaining momentum, holistic prescriptions for everyday health concerns – from exercise to time outdoors, social connection and nutrition – will be taken more seriously, predicts McGroarty. Apps such as Zoe already deliver personalised eating plans to 50,000 users based on their biological responses to food, with founder Tim Spector championing precision nutrition’s role in treating mental and physical maladies. Elsewhere, prescribing time in nature is reported to have saved the NHS £635m in 2022. Signalling a wider shift, fitness giant Technogym claims to be readying for a future in which patients are prescribed an hour of exercise (on its equipment, presumably) daily, with healthcare providers footing the bill. It’s an approach McGroarty believes can ‘take wellness beyond the elites to those who need it most’.
Advertisement - Continue Reading Below
17
## You’ll Step Outside Your Fitness Zone
Outdoor recreation was supercharged by the pandemic, when a daily walk was akin to a luxury bootcamp. Today, outside activities, such as mountain hikes, feature on the feeds of many formerly gym-based fitness influencers, observes Tracey. Meanwhile, pickleball has everyone from Michael Phelps to your mum picking up a racket. Good for the planet and people, cities worldwide are cleaning up waterways to meet demand for wild swimming, says McGroarty. A bit feral for you? Try a rewilding spa.
18
## Self-Care Will Be Served In The Gym
Gyms are championing a holistic way of remediating both the physical and psychological. Third Space members can now stack sound baths on to gym sessions, while Blokspace fuses fitness with immersive art. With research suggesting mental health treatments are more effective when combined with exercise, Hero Training Club clients are able to book counselling alongside boxing classes. According to Mindbody, 40% of us exercise to boost mental wellness... So maybe sweating the small stuff can be beneficial.
Advertisement - Continue Reading Below
19
## You’ll Swot Up On Science
Forget movie marathons and reality reruns, health-ed will be your favourite form of entertainment in 2024. Sitting within the UK’s top 20 podcasts, _Zoe Science & Nutrition_ and _The Huberman Lab_ have found a sweet spot translating science into practical health hacks for their audiences. James Clear’s _Atomic Habits,_ which harnesses science-backed strategies to build healthy habits, remains in the UK’s top 10 books. And for those looking for lessons on longevity, Netflix’s _Live_ _To 100: Secrets Of The Blue Zones_ is currently trending. ‘We’re more eager than ever to learn about our health and how to take better care of ourselves,’ notes Ashenden. Huberman et al are providing the techniques minus all the woo-woo. 
Watch Next
Advertisement - Continue Reading Below
## [Fitness](https://www.menshealth.com/uk/fitness/)
[ Harry Styles' Sub-3 Marathon Blueprint ](https://www.menshealth.com/uk/fitness/cardio-exercise/a70727017/sub-3-marathon-like-harry-styles/)[ Top Running Coach’s 2 Drills to Fix Your Breathing](https://www.menshealth.com/uk/fitness/cardio-exercise/a70722206/running-breathing-drills/)[ Is Xenom CrossFit's Answer to Hyrox?](https://www.menshealth.com/uk/fitness/a70721579/xenom-crossfit-competition/)[ 'How I Cut My Biological Age by 30 Years'](https://www.menshealth.com/uk/fitness/cardio-exercise/a70720655/running-lower-biological-age/)
[ How Sylvester Stallone Stays Fit and Healthy at 79 ](https://www.menshealth.com/uk/fitness/a70710060/sylvester-stallone-workout-routine-79/)[ Ross Kemp's Cardio and Strength Routine at 61](https://www.menshealth.com/uk/fitness/a70694168/ross-kemp-workout-routine-61/)[ Hyrox World Champ Tim Wenisch's Training Tips](https://www.menshealth.com/uk/fitness/a70694221/hyrox-champion-training-mistakes/)[ Alan Ritchson’s Training for Netflix’s War Machine](https://www.menshealth.com/uk/fitness/a70678999/alan-ritchson-military-training-war-machine/)
[ How Terry Crews Maintains His Physique at 57](https://www.menshealth.com/uk/fitness/a68000085/terry-crews-workouts-and-training/)[ Colman Domingo's Health and Fitness Non-Negotiables](https://www.menshealth.com/uk/fitness/a70619507/colman-domingo-fitness-routine-56/)[ Strength Benchmarks for Running Further and Faster](https://www.menshealth.com/uk/fitness/cardio-exercise/a70602773/running-strength-tests/)[ Ben Kingsley, 82, Uses This Habit for a Clear Mind](https://www.menshealth.com/uk/fitness/a70603466/ben-kingsley-workout-fitness-swimming/)
Advertisement - Continue Reading Below
